                                         TEXT OF REGULATIONS

                                                 TITLE 11. LAW
                DIVISION 6. CALIFORNIA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY
         CHAPTER 1. CALIFORNIA CONSUMER PRIVACY ACT REGULATIONS

                                 ARTICLE 1. GENERAL PROVISIONS

§ 7001. Definitions.

In addition to the definitions set forth in Civil Code section 1798.140, for purposes of
these regulations:

(a) "Agency" means the California Privacy Protection Agency established by Civil
      Code section 1798.199.10 et seq.

(b) "Alternative Opt-out Link" means the alternative opt-out link that a business
      may provide instead of posting the two separate "Do Not Sell or Share My
      Personal Information" and "Limit the Use of My Sensitive Personal Information"
      links as set forth in Civil Code section 1798.135, subdivision (a)(3), and
      specified in section 7015.

(c) "Attorney General" means the California Attorney General or any officer or
      employee of the California Department of Justice acting under the authority of
      the California Attorney General.

(d) "Authorized agent" means a natural person or a business entity that a
      consumer has authorized to act on their behalf subject to the requirements set
      forth in section 7063.

(e) "Automated decisionmaking technology" or "ADMT" means any technology
      that processes personal information and uses computation to replace human
      decisionmaking or substantially replace human decisionmaking.

      (1) For purposes of this definition, to "substantially replace human
             decisionmaking" means a business uses the technology's output to make
             a decision without human involvement. Human involvement requires the
             human reviewer to:

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 1 of 127
             (A) Know how to interpret and use the technology's output to make the
                    decision;

             (B) Review and analyze the output of the technology, and any other
                    information that is relevant to make or change the decision; and

             (C) Have the authority to make or change the decision based on their
                    analysis in subsection (B).

      (2) ADMT includes profiling that replaces human decisionmaking or
             substantially replaces human decisionmaking.

      (3) ADMT does not include web hosting, domain registration, networking,
             caching, website-loading, data storage, firewalls, anti-virus, anti-malware,
             spam- and robocall-filtering, spellchecking, calculators, databases, and
             spreadsheets, provided that they do not replace human decisionmaking.

(f) (e) "Categories of sources" means types or groupings of persons or entities
      from which a business collects personal information about consumers,
      described with enough particularity to provide consumers with a meaningful
      understanding of the type of person or entity. They may include the consumer
      directly, advertising networks, internet service providers, data analytics
      providers, government entities, operating systems and platforms, social
      networks, and data brokers.

(g) (f) "Categories of third parties" means types or groupings of third parties with
      whom the business shares personal information, described with enough
      particularity to provide consumers with a meaningful understanding of the
      type of third party. They may include advertising networks, internet service
      providers, data analytics providers, government entities, operating systems
      and platforms, social networks, and data brokers.

(h) (g) "CCPA" means the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018, Civil Code
      section 1798.100 et seq.

(i) (h) "COPPA" means the Children's Online Privacy Protection Act, 15 U.S.C.
      sections 6501 to 6506 and 16 Code of Federal Regulations part 312.

(j) "Cybersecurity audit" means the annual cybersecurity audit that every
      business whose processing of consumers' personal information presents

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 2 of 127
      significant risk to consumers' security as set forth in section 7120, subsection
      (b), is required to complete.

(k) "Cybersecurity program" means the policies, procedures, and practices that
      protect personal information from unauthorized access, destruction, use,
      modification, or disclosure; and protect against unauthorized activity resulting
      in the loss of availability of personal information.

(l) "Cybersecurity audit report" means the document that every business must
      create as part of its cybersecurity audit. The cybersecurity audit report
      includes the information set forth in section 7123, subsection (e).

(m) (i) "Disproportionate effort" within the context of a business, service provider,
      contractor, or third party responding to a consumer request means the time
      and/or resources expended by the business, service provider, contractor, or
      third party to respond to the individualized request significantly outweighs the
      reasonably foreseeable impact to the consumer by not responding, taking into
      account applicable circumstances, such as the size of the business, service
      provider, contractor, or third party, the nature of the request, and the technical
      limitations impacting their ability to respond. For example, responding to a
      consumer request to know may require disproportionate effort when the
      personal information that is the subject of the request is not in a searchable or
      readily-accessible format, is maintained only for legal or compliance purposes,
      is not sold or used for any commercial purpose, and there is no reasonably
      foreseeable material impact to the consumer by not responding. By contrast,
      the impact to the consumer of denying a request to correct inaccurate
      information that the business uses and/or sells may outweigh the burden on
      the business, service provider, contractor, or third party in honoring the
      request when the reasonably foreseeable consequence of denying the request
      would be the denial of services or opportunities to the consumer. A business,
      service provider, contractor, or third party that has failed to put in place
      adequate processes and procedures to receive and process consumer
      requests in accordance with the CCPA and these regulations cannot claim that
      responding to a consumer's request requires disproportionate effort.

(n) (j) "Employment benefits" means retirement, health, and other benefit
      programs, services, or products to which consumers and their dependents or
      their beneficiaries receive access through the consumer's employer.

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 3 of 127
(o) (k) "Employment-related information" means personal information that is
      collected by the business about a natural person for the reasons identified in
      Civil Code section 1798.145, subdivision (m)(1). The collection of employment-
      related information, including for the purpose of administering employment
      benefits, shall be considered a business purpose.

(p) (l) "Financial incentive" means a program, benefit, or other offering, including
      payments to consumers, for the collection, retention, sale, or sharing of
      personal information. Price or service differences are types of financial
      incentives.

(q) (m) "First party" means a consumer-facing business with which the consumer
      intends and expects to interact.

(r) (n) "Frictionless manner" means a business's processing of an opt-out
      preference signal that complies with the requirements set forth in section
      7025, subsection (f).

(s) (o) "Information practices" means practices regarding the collection, use,
      disclosure, sale, sharing, and retention of personal information.

(t) "Information system" means the resources (e.g., network, hardware, and
      software) organized for the processing of personal information or that can
      provide access to personal information. The business's information system
      includes the resources organized for the business's processing of personal
      information, regardless of whether the business owns those resources.

(u) "Multi-factor authentication" means authentication through verification of at
      least two of the following types of authentication factors: (1) knowledge
      factors, such as a password; (2) possession factors, such as a token; or (3)
      inherence factors, such as a biometric characteristic.

(v) (p) "Nonbusiness" means a person or entity that does not meet the definition of
      a "business" as defined in Civil Code section 1798.140, subdivision (d). For
      example, non profits and government entities and many non-profits are
      nonbusinesses because "business" is defined, among other things, to include
      only entities they are not "organized or operated for the profit or financial
      benefit of its shareholders or other owners."

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 4 of 127
(w) (q) "Notice at Collection" means the notice given by a business to a consumer
      at or before the point at which a business collects personal information from
      the consumer as required by Civil Code section 1798.100, subdivisions (a) and
      (b), and specified in these regulations.

(x) (r) "Notice of Right to Limit" means the notice given by a business informing
      consumers of their right to limit the use or disclosure of the consumer's
      sensitive personal information as required by Civil Code sections 1798.121 and
      1798.135 and specified in these regulations.

(y) (s) "Notice of Right to Opt-out of Sale/Sharing" means the notice given by a
      business informing consumers of their right to opt-out of the sale or sharing of
      their personal information as required by Civil Code sections 1798.120 and
      1798.135 and specified in these regulations.

(z) (t) "Notice of Financial Incentive" means the notice given by a business
      explaining each financial incentive or price or service difference as required by
      Civil Code section 1798.125, subdivision (b), and specified in these regulations.

(aa) (u) "Opt-out preference signal" means a signal that is sent by a platform,
      technology, or mechanism, on behalf of the consumer, that communicates the
      consumer choice to opt-out of the sale and sharing of personal information and
      that complies with the requirements set forth in section 7025, subsection (b).

(bb) "Penetration testing" means testing the security of an information system by
      attempting to circumvent or defeat its security features by authorizing
      attempted penetration of the information system.

(cc) "Performance at work" means the performance of job duties for which the
      consumer has been hired or has applied to be hired. The following are not
      "performance at work": a consumer's union membership or interest in
      unionizing; a consumer's interest in seeking other employment opportunities; a
      consumer's location when off-duty or on breaks; or a consumer's use of a
      personal account (e.g., email, text messages, or social media) unless solely to
      prevent or limit the use of these accounts on the business's information
      system or to prevent the disclosure of confidential information.

(dd) "Performance in an educational program" means the performance of
      coursework in an educational program in which the consumer is enrolled or has

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 5 of 127
      applied to be enrolled. The following are not "performance in an educational
      program": a consumer's use of a personal account (e.g., email, text messages,
      or social media) unless solely to prevent or limit the use of these accounts on
      the educational program provider's information system, including to prevent
      the disclosure of confidential information or to prevent cheating; or a
      consumer's location when they are not performing coursework.

(ee) "Physical or biological identification or profiling" means identifying or profiling
      a consumer using automated measurements or analysis of their physical or
      biological characteristics, or automated measurements or analysis of or
      relating to their body. This includes using biometric information, vocal
      intonation, facial expression, and gesture (e.g., to identify or infer emotion).
      This does not include processing physical or biological characteristics that do
      not identify, and cannot reasonably be linked with, a particular consumer.

(ff) (v) "Price or service difference" means (1) any difference in the price or rate
      charged for any goods or services to any consumer related to the collection,
      retention, sale, or sharing of personal information, or (2) any difference in the
      level or quality of any goods or services offered to any consumer related to the
      collection, retention, sale, or sharing of personal information, including the
      denial of goods or services to the consumer.

(gg) (w) "Privacy policy," as referred to in Civil Code sections 1798.130, subdivision
      (a)(5), and 1798.135, subdivision (c)(2), means the statement that a business
      shall make available to consumers describing the business's online and offline
      information practices, and the rights of consumers regarding their own
      personal information.

(hh) "Privileged account" means any authorized user account (i.e., an account
      designed to be used by an individual) or service account (i.e., an account
      designed to be used only by a service, not by an individual) that can be used to
      perform functions that other user accounts are not authorized to perform,
      including but not limited to the ability to add, change, or remove other
      accounts, or make configuration changes to an information system.

(ii) "Profiling" means any form of automated processing of personal information to
      evaluate certain personal aspects (including intelligence, ability, aptitude,
      predispositions) relating to a natural person and in particular to analyze or

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 6 of 127
      predict aspects concerning that natural person's performance at work,
      economic situation, health (including mental health), personal preferences,
      interests, reliability, predispositions, behavior, location, or movements.

(jj) "Request to access ADMT" means a consumer request that a business provide
      information to the consumer about the business's use of ADMT with respect to
      the consumer, pursuant to Civil Code section 1798.185(a)(15) and Article 11.

(kk) "Request to appeal ADMT" means a consumer request to appeal the business's
      use of ADMT for a significant decision as set forth in section 7221, subsection
      (b)(1).

(ll) (x) "Request to correct" means a consumer request that a business correct
      inaccurate personal information that it maintains about the consumer,
      pursuant to Civil Code section 1798.106.

(mm) (y) "Request to delete" means a consumer request that a business delete
      personal information about the consumer that the business has collected from
      the consumer, pursuant to Civil Code section 1798.105.

(nn) (z) "Request to know" means a consumer request that a business disclose
      personal information that it has collected about the consumer pursuant to Civil
      Code sections 1798.110 or 1798.115. It includes a request for any or all of the
      following:

      (1) Specific pieces of personal information that a business has collected
             about the consumer;

      (2) Categories of personal information it has collected about the consumer;

      (3) Categories of sources from which the personal information is collected;

      (4) Categories of personal information that the business sold, shared, or
             disclosed for a business purpose about the consumer;

      (5) Categories of third parties to whom the personal information was sold,
             shared, or disclosed for a business purpose; and

      (6) The business or commercial purpose for collecting, or selling, or sharing
             personal information.

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 7 of 127
(oo) (aa) "Request to limit" means a consumer request that a business limit the use
      and disclosure of the consumer's sensitive personal information, pursuant to
      Civil Code section 1798.121, subdivision (a).

(pp) (bb) "Request to opt-in to sale/sharing" means an action demonstrating that
      the consumer has consented to the business's sale or sharing of personal
      information about the consumer by a parent or guardian of a consumer less
      than 13 years of age or by a consumer at least 13 years of age.

(qq) "Request to opt-out of ADMT" means a consumer request that a business not
      use ADMT with respect to the consumer, pursuant to Civil Code section
      1798.185(a)(15) and Article 11.

(rr) (cc) "Request to opt-out of sale/sharing" means a consumer request that a
      business neither sell nor share the consumer's personal information to third
      parties, pursuant to Civil Code section 1798.120, subdivision (a).

(ss) "Right to access ADMT" means a consumer's right to request that a business
      provide information to the consumer about the business's use of ADMT with
      respect to the consumer as set forth in Civil Code section 1798.185(a)(15) and
      Article 11.

(tt) (dd) "Right to correct" means the consumer's right to request that a business
      correct inaccurate personal information that it maintains about the consumer
      as set forth in Civil Code section 1798.106.

(uu) (ee) "Right to delete" means the consumer's right to request that a business
      delete any personal information about the consumer that the business has
      collected from the consumer as set forth in Civil Code section 1798.105.

(vv) (ff) "Right to know" means the consumer's right to request that a business
      disclose personal information that it has collected, sold, or shared about the
      consumer as set forth in Civil Code sections 1798.110 and 1798.115.

(ww) (gg) "Right to limit" means the consumer's right to request that a business
      limit the use and disclosure of a consumer's sensitive personal information as
      set forth in Civil Code section 1798.121.

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 8 of 127
(xx) "Right to opt-out of ADMT" means a consumer's right to direct that a business
      not use ADMT with respect to the consumer as set forth in Civil Code section
      1798.185(a)(15) and Article 11.

(yy) (hh) "Right to opt-out of sale/sharing" means the consumer's right to direct a
      business that sells or shares personal information about the consumer to third
      parties to stop doing so as set forth in Civil Code section 1798.120.

(zz) "Risk assessment report" means the document that every business that is
      required to conduct a risk assessment must create as part of its risk
      assessment. The risk assessment report includes the information set forth in
      section 7152, subsections (a)(1)-(3), (6)-(9).

(aaa) "Sensitive location" means any of the following physical places: healthcare
      facilities including hospitals, doctors' offices, urgent care facilities, and
      community health clinics; pharmacies; domestic violence shelters; food
      pantries; housing/emergency shelters; educational institutions; political party
      offices; legal services offices; union offices; and places of worship.

(bbb) "Sensitive personal information" means:

      (1) Personal information that reveals:

             (A) A consumer's social security, driver's license, state identification
                    card, or passport number.

             (B) A consumer's account log-in, financial account, debit card, or credit
                    card number in combination with any required security or access
                    code, password, or credentials allowing access to an account.

             (C) A consumer's precise geolocation.

             (D) A consumer's racial or ethnic origin, citizenship or immigration status,
                    religious or philosophical beliefs, or union membership.

             (E) The contents of a consumer's mail, email, and text messages unless
                    the business is the intended recipient of the communication.

             (F) A consumer's genetic data.

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 9 of 127
             (G) A consumer's neural data, which means information that is generated
                    by measuring the activity of a consumer's central or peripheral
                    nervous system, and that is not inferred from nonneural information.

      (2) The processing of biometric information for the purpose of uniquely
             identifying a consumer.

      (3) Personal information collected and analyzed concerning a consumer's
             health, sex life, or sexual orientation.

      (4) Personal information of consumers that the business has actual
             knowledge are less than 16 years of age. A business that willfully
             disregards the consumer's age shall be deemed to have had actual
             knowledge of the consumer's age.

      Sensitive personal information does not include information that is "publicly
      available" pursuant to Civil Code section 1798.140, subdivision (v)(2).

(ccc) (ii) "Signed" means that the written attestation, declaration, or permission
      has either been physically signed or provided electronically in accordance with
      the Uniform Electronic Transactions Act, Civil Code section 1633.1 et seq.

(ddd) "Significant decision" means a decision that results in the provision or denial
      of financial or lending services, housing, education enrollment or opportunities,
      employment or independent contracting opportunities or compensation, or
      healthcare services. For purposes of this definition:

      (1) "Financial or lending services" means the extension of credit or a loan,
             transmitting or exchanging funds, the provision of deposit or checking
             accounts, check cashing, or installment payment plans.

      (2) "Housing" means any building, structure, or portion thereof that is used or
             occupied as, or designed, arranged, or intended to be used or occupied as,
             a home, residence, or sleeping place by one or more consumers including
             for permanent or temporary occupancy. The use of ADMT that provides or
             denies housing to a consumer based solely on the availability or vacancy
             of the housing or the successful receipt of payment for housing from the
             consumer is not making a significant decision.

      (3) "Education enrollment or opportunities" means:

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 10 of 127
             (A) Admission or acceptance into academic or vocational programs;

             (B) Educational credentials (e.g., a degree, diploma, or certificate); and

             (C) Suspension and expulsion.

      (4) "Employment or independent contracting opportunities or compensation"
             means:

             (A) Hiring;

             (B) Allocation or assignment of work for employees; or salary, hourly or
                    per-assignment compensation, incentive compensation such as a
                    bonus, or another benefit ("allocation/assignment of work and
                    compensation");

             (C) Promotion; and

             (D) Demotion, suspension, and termination.

      (5) "Healthcare services" means services related to the diagnosis, prevention,
             or treatment of human disease or impairment, or the assessment or care
             of an individual's health.

      (6) Significant decision does not include advertising to a consumer.

(eee) "Systematic observation" means methodical and regular or continuous
      observation. This includes, for example, methodical and regular or continuous
      observation using Wi-Fi or Bluetooth tracking, radio frequency identification,
      drones, video or audio recording or live-streaming, technologies that enable
      physical or biological identification or profiling; and geofencing, location
      trackers, or license-plate recognition.

(fff) "Train" for the purposes of sections 7150, subsection (b)(6), and 7153 means
      the process through which a technology discovers underlying patterns, learns
      a series of actions, or is taught to generate a desired output. Examples of
      training include adjusting the parameters of an algorithm used for ADMT,
      improving the algorithm that determines how a machine-learning model learns,
      and iterating the datasets fed into ADMT.

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 11 of 127
(ggg) (jj) "Third-party identity verification service" means a security process offered
      by an independent third party that verifies the identity of the consumer making
      a request to the business. Third-party identity verification services are subject
      to the requirements set forth in Article 5 regarding requests to delete,
      requests to correct, or requests to know.

(hhh) (kk) "Unstructured" as it relates to personal information means personal
      information that is not organized in a pre-defined manner and could not be
      retrieved or organized in a pre-defined manner without disproportionate effort
      on behalf of the business, service provider, contractor, or third party.

(iii) (ll) "Value of the consumer's data" means the value provided to the business
      by the consumer's data as calculated under section 7081.

(jjj) (mm) "Verify" means to determine that the consumer making a request to
      delete, request to correct, or request to know, or request to access ADMT is
      the consumer about whom the business has collected information, or if that
      consumer is less than 13 years of age, the consumer's parent or legal guardian.

Note: Authority cited: Sections 1798.175 and 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Sections
1798.100, 1798.105, 1798.106, 1798.110, 1798.115, 1798.120, 1798.121, 1798.125,
1798.130, 1798.135, 1798.140, 1798.145, 1798.150, 1798.155, 1798.175, 1798.185,
1798.199.40, 1798.199.45, 1798.199.50, 1798.199.55 and 1798.199.65, Civil Code.

§ 7002. Restrictions on the Collection and Use of Personal Information.

(a) In accordance with Civil Code section 1798.100, subdivision (c), a business's
      collection, use, retention, and/or sharing of a consumer's personal information
      shall be reasonably necessary and proportionate to achieve:

      (1) The purpose(s) for which the personal information was collected or
             processed, which shall comply with the requirements set forth in
             subsection (b); or

      (2) Another disclosed purpose that is compatible with the context in which
             the personal information was collected, which shall comply with the
             requirements set forth in subsection (c).

(b) The purpose(s) for which the personal information was collected or processed
      shall be consistent with the reasonable expectations of the consumer(s) whose

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 12 of 127
      personal information is collected or processed. The consumer's (or
      consumers') reasonable expectations concerning the purpose for which their
      personal information will be collected or processed shall be based on the
      following:

      (1) The relationship between the consumer(s) and the business. For example,
             if the consumer is intentionally interacting with the business on its
             website to purchase a good or service, the consumer likely expects that
             the purpose for collecting or processing the personal information is to
             provide that good or service. By contrast, for example, the consumer of a
             business's mobile flashlight application would not expect the business to
             collect the consumer's geolocation information to provide the flashlight
             service.

      (2) The type, nature, and amount of personal information that the business
             plans seeks to collect or process. For example, if a business's mobile
             communication application requests access to the consumer's contact list
             in order to call a specific individual, the consumer who is providing their
             contact list likely expects that the purpose of the business's use of that
             contact list will be to connect the consumer with the specific contact they
             selected. Similarly, if a business collects the consumer's fingerprint in
             connection with setting up the security feature of unlocking the device
             using the fingerprint, the consumer likely expects that the business's use
             of the consumer's fingerprint is only for the purpose of unlocking their
             mobile device.

      (3) The source of the personal information and the business's method for
             collecting or processing it. For example, if the consumer is providing their
             personal information directly to the business while using the business's
             product or service, the consumer likely expects that the business will use
             the personal information to provide that product or service. However, the
             consumer may not expect that the business will use that same personal
             information for a different product or service offered by the business or
             the business's subsidiary.

      (4) The specificity, explicitness, prominence, and clarity of disclosures to the
             consumer(s) about the purpose for collecting or processing their personal
             information, such as in the Notice at Collection and in the marketing

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 13 of 127
             materials to the consumer(s) about the business's good or service. For
             example, the consumer who receives a pop-up notice that the business
             wants to collect the consumer's phone number to verify their identity
             when they log in likely expects that the business will use their phone
             number for the purpose of verifying the consumer's identity and not for
             marketing purposes. Similarly, the consumer may expect that a mobile
             application that markets itself as a service that finds gas prices near the
             consumer's location will collect and use the consumer's geolocation
             information for that specific purpose when they are using the service.

      (5) The degree to which the involvement of service providers, contractors,
             third parties, or other entities in the collecting or processing of personal
             information is apparent to the consumer(s). For example, the consumer
             likely expects an online retailer's disclosure of the consumer's name and
             address to a delivery service provider in order for that service provider to
             deliver a purchased product, because that service provider's involvement
             is apparent to the consumer. By contrast, the consumer may not expect
             the disclosure of personal information to a service provider if the
             consumer is not directly interacting with the service provider or the
             service provider's role in the processing is not apparent to the consumer.

(c) Whether another disclosed purpose is compatible with the context in which the
      personal information was collected shall be based on the following:

      (1) At the time of collection of the personal information, the reasonable
             expectations of the consumer(s) whose personal information is collected
             or processed concerning the purpose for which their personal information
             will be collected or processed, based on the factors set forth in
             subsection (b).

      (2) The other disclosed purpose for which the business plans seeks to further
             collect or process the consumer's personal information, including whether
             it is a business purpose listed in Civil Code section 1798.140, subdivisions
             (e)(1) through - (e)(8).

      (3) The strength of the link between subsection (c)(1) and subsection (c)(2).
             For example, a strong link exists between the consumer's reasonable
             expectations that the personal information will be used to provide them

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 14 of 127
             with a requested service at the time of collection, and the use of the
             information to repair errors that impair the intended functionality of that
             requested service. This would weigh in favor of compatibility. By contrast,
             for example, a weak link exists between the consumer's reasonable
             expectations that the personal information will be collected to provide a
             requested cloud storage service at the time of collection, and the use of
             the information to research and develop an unrelated facial recognition
             service.

(d) For each purpose identified in compliance with subsection (a)(1) or (a)(2), the
      collection, use, retention, and/or sharing of a consumer's personal information
      to achieve that purpose shall be reasonably necessary and proportionate. The
      business's collection, use, retention, and/or sharing of a consumer's personal
      information shall also be reasonably necessary and proportionate to achieve
      any purpose for which the business obtains the consumer's consent in
      compliance with subsection (e). Whether a business's collection, use, retention,
      and/or sharing of a consumer's personal information is reasonably necessary
      and proportionate to achieve the purpose identified in compliance with
      subsection (a)(1) or (a)(2), or any purpose for which the business obtains
      consent, shall be based on the following:

      (1) The minimum personal information that is necessary to achieve the
             purpose identified in compliance with subsection (a)(1) or (a)(2), or any
             purpose for which the business obtains consent. For example, to complete
             an online purchase and send an email confirmation of the purchase to the
             consumer, an online retailer may need the consumer's order information,
             payment and shipping information, and email address.

      (2) The possible negative impacts on consumers posed by the business's
             collection or processing of the personal information. For example, a
             possible negative impact of collecting precise geolocation information is
             that it may reveal other sensitive personal information about the
             consumer, such as health information based on visits to healthcare
             providers.

      (3) The existence of additional safeguards for the personal information to
             specifically address the possible negative impacts on consumers
             considered by the business in subsection (d)(2). For example, a business

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 15 of 127
             may consider encryption or automatic deletion of personal information
             within a specific window of time as potential safeguards.

(e) A business shall obtain the consumer's consent in accordance with section
      7004 before collecting or processing personal information for any purpose
      that does not meet the requirements set forth in subsection (a). Except as set
      forth Civil Code section 1798.145, subdivision (r), or as otherwise prohibited by
      the CCPA, a consumer must be able to withdraw consent at any time.

(f) A business shall not collect categories of personal information other than
      those disclosed in its Notice at Collection in accordance with the CCPA and
      section 7012. If the business intends to collect additional categories of
      personal information or intends to use the personal information for additional
      purposes that are incompatible with the disclosed purpose for which the
      personal information was collected, the business shall provide a new Notice at
      Collection. However, any additional collecting or processing of personal
      information shall comply with subsections (a) - (e).

Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Sections 1798.100,
1798.106, 1798.121, 1798.130, 1798.135 and 1798.185, Civil Code.

§ 7003. Requirements for Disclosures and Communications to Consumers.

(a) Disclosures and communications to consumers shall be easy to read and
      understandable to consumers. For example, they shall use plain,
      straightforward language and avoid technical or legal jargon.

(b) Disclosures required under Article 2 shall also:

      (1) Use a format that makes the disclosure readable, including on smaller
             screens, if applicable.

      (2) Be available in the languages in which the business in its ordinary course
             provides contracts, disclaimers, sale announcements, and other
             information to consumers in California.

      (3) Be reasonably accessible to consumers with disabilities. For notices
             provided online, the business shall follow generally recognized industry
             standards, such as the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines, version 2.1
             of June 5, 2018, from the World Wide Web Consortium, incorporated

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 16 of 127
             herein by reference. In other contexts, the business shall provide
             information on how a consumer with a disability may access the policy in
             an alternative format.

(c) For websites, a conspicuous link required under the CCPA or these regulations
      shall appear in a similar manner as other similarly-posted links used by the
      business on its homepage(s). For example, the business shall use a font size
      and color that is at least the approximate size or color as other links next to it
      that are used by the business on its homepage(s) any internet webpage where
      personal information is collected.

(d) For mobile applications, a conspicuous link shall be included in the business's
      privacy policy, which must be accessible through the mobile application's
      platform page or download page. It may must also be accessible through a link
      within the application, such as through the application's settings menu.

Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Sections 1798.100,
1798.105, 1798.106, 1798.110, 1798.115, 1798.120, 1798.121, 1798.125, 1798.130 and
1798.135, Civil Code.

§ 7004. Requirements for Methods for Submitting CCPA Requests and Obtaining
Consumer Consent.

(a) Except as expressly allowed by the CCPA and these regulations, businesses
      shall design and implement methods for submitting CCPA requests and
      obtaining consumer consent that incorporate the following principles:

      (1) Easy to understand. The methods shall use language that is easy for
             consumers to read and understand. When applicable, they shall comply
             with the requirements for disclosures to consumers set forth in section
             7003.

      (2) Symmetry in choice. The path for a consumer to exercise a more privacy-
             protective option shall not be longer or more difficult or time-consuming
             than the path to exercise a less privacy-protective option because that
             would impair or interfere with the consumer's ability to make a choice.
             Illustrative examples and requirements follow.

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 17 of 127
             (A) It is not symmetrical when a business's process for submitting a
                    request to opt-out of sale/sharing requires more steps than that
                    business's process for a consumer to opting-in to the sale of
                    personal information after having previously opted out. For example,
                    the The number of steps for submitting a request to opt-out of
                    sale/sharing as is measured from when the consumer clicks on the
                    "Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information" link to completion of
                    the request should be the same or fewer than the The. number of
                    steps for submitting a request to opt-in to the sale of personal
                    information where the business offers a link for consumers to learn
                    more about opting-in to the business's sale or sharing of their
                    personal information is measured from the first indication by the
                    consumer to the business of their interest to opt in to completion of
                    the request.

             (B) A choice to opt-in to the sale of personal information that provides
                    only the two options, "Yes" and "Ask me later," is not equal or
                    symmetrical because there is no option to decline the opt-in. "Ask me
                    later" implies that the consumer has not declined but delayed the
                    decision and that the business will continue to ask the consumer to
                    opt-in. Framing the consumer's options in this manner impairs the
                    consumer's ability to make a choice. An equal or symmetrical choice
                    could be between "Yes" and "No."

             (C) A website banner that provides only the two options, "Accept All"
                    and "More Information," or, "Accept All" and "Preferences," when
                    seeking the consumer's consent to use their personal information is
                    not equal or symmetrical because the method allows the consumer
                    to "Accept All" in one step, but requires the consumer to take
                    additional steps to exercise their rights over their personal
                    information. Framing the consumer's options in this manner impairs
                    the consumer's ability to make a choice. An equal or symmetrical
                    choice could be between "Accept All" and "Decline All."

             (D) A choice where the "yes" button is more prominent (e.g., larger in size
                    or in a more eye-catching color) than the "no" button is not equal or
                    symmetrical.

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 18 of 127
             (E) A choice where the option to participate in a financial incentive
                    program is selected by default or featured more prominently (e.g.,
                    larger in size or in a more eye-catching color) than the choice not to
                    participate in the program is neither equal nor symmetrical.

      (3) Avoid Do not use language or interactive elements that are confusing to
             the consumer. The methods should must not use double negatives,
             misleading statements or omissions, affirmative misstatements, or
             deceptive language. Toggles or buttons must clearly indicate the
             consumer's choice. A consumer's silence or failure to act affirmatively
             does not constitute consent. Illustrative examples of prohibited methods
             follow.

             (A) Giving the choice of "Yes" or "No" next to the statement "Do Not Sell
                    or Share My Personal Information" is a double negative and a
                    confusing choice for a consumer.

             (B) Toggles or buttons that state "on" or "off" may be are confusing to a
                    consumer and may require if they do not include further clarifying
                    language.

             (C) The uUnintuitive placement of buttons to confirm a consumer's
                    choice may be is confusing to the consumer. For example, it is
                    confusing to the consumer when a business at first consistently
                    offers choices in the order of "Yes," then "No," but then offers
                    choices in the opposite order--"No," then "Yes"--when asking the
                    consumer something that would contravene the consumer's
                    expectation.

             (D) A consumer closing or navigating away from a pop-up window on a
                    website that requests consent without first affirmatively selecting
                    the equivalent of an "I accept" button shall not constitute consent.
                    Such a method for obtaining consent is confusing to the consumer.

             (E) Choices driven by a false sense of urgency are misleading. A
                    countdown clock displayed next to a consent choice which states
                    "time is running out to consent to this data use and receive a limited
                    discount" where the discount is not actually limited by time or
                    availability is misleading.

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 19 of 127
      (4) Avoid Do not use choice architecture that impairs or interferes with the
             consumer's ability to make a choice. Businesses should also must not
             design their methods in a manner that would impair the consumer's ability
             to exercise their choice because consent must be freely given, specific,
             informed, and unambiguous. Illustrative examples and requirements
             follow.

             (A) Requiring the consumer to click through disruptive screens before
                    they are able to submit a request to opt-out of sale/sharing is a
                    choice architecture that impairs or interferes with the consumer's
                    ability to exercise their choice.

             (B) Bundling choices so that the consumer is only offered the option to
                    consent to using personal information for purposes that meet the
                    requirements set forth in section 7002, subsection (a), together with
                    purposes that are incompatible with the context in which the
                    personal information was collected is a choice architecture that
                    impairs or interferes with the consumer's ability to make a choice.
                    For example, a business that provides a location-based service, such
                    as a mobile application that finds gas prices near the consumer's
                    location, shall not require the consumer to consent to incompatible
                    uses (e.g., sale of the consumer's geolocation to data brokers)
                    together with a reasonably necessary and proportionate use of
                    geolocation information for providing the location-based services,
                    which does not require consent. This type of choice architecture does
                    not allow consent to be freely given, specific, informed, or
                    unambiguous because it requires the consumer to consent to
                    incompatible uses in order to obtain the expected service. The
                    business should must provide the consumer a separate option to
                    consent to the business's use of personal information that does not
                    meet the requirements set forth in section 7002, subsection (a).

             (C) Acceptance of general or broad terms of use, or a similar document,
                    that contains descriptions of personal information processing along
                    with other, unrelated information. This type of choice architecture
                    prevents consent from being freely given, specific, and informed, or
                    from signifying agreement for a narrowly defined particular purpose.

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 20 of 127
      (5) Easy to execute. The business shall not add unnecessary burden or
             friction to the process by which the consumer submits a CCPA request or
             provides or withdraws consent. Methods should must be tested to ensure
             that they are functional and do not undermine the consumer's choice to
             submit the request. Illustrative examples and requirements follow.

             (A) Upon clicking the "Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information"
                    link, the business shall not require the consumer to search or scroll
                    through the text of a privacy policy or similar document or webpage
                    to locate the mechanism for submitting a request to opt-out of
                    sale/sharing.

             (B) A business that knows of, but does not remedy, circular or broken
                    links, or nonfunctional email addresses, such as inboxes that are not
                    monitored or have aggressive filters that screen emails from the
                    public, may be in violation of this regulation.

             (C) Businesses that require the consumer to unnecessarily wait on a
                    webpage as the business processes the request or require
                    consumers to fill out multiple or duplicative forms or impose
                    unnecessary waiting periods between form submissions may be in
                    violation of this regulation.

             (D) Businesses that require the consumer to call a toll-free telephone
                    number to submit a CCPA request must ensure that the individuals
                    handling those phone calls have the knowledge and ability to
                    process the consumer's CCPA requests.

(b) A method that does not comply with subsection (a) may be considered a dark
      pattern. The illustrative examples provided in subsection (a) constitute a non-
      exhaustive list of dark patterns. Any agreement obtained through the use of
      dark patterns shall not constitute consumer consent. For example, a business
      that uses dark patterns to obtain consent from a consumer to sell their
      personal information shall be in the position of never having obtained the
      consumer's consent to do so.

(c) A user interface is a dark pattern if the interface has the effect of substantially
      subverting or impairing user autonomy, decisionmaking, or choice. A business's
      intent in designing the interface is not determinative in whether the user

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 21 of 127
      interface is a dark pattern, but a factor to be considered. If a business did not
      intend to design the user interface to subvert or impair user choice, but the
      business knows of and does not remedy a user interface that has that effect,
      the user interface is may still be a dark pattern. Similarly, a business's
      deliberate ignorance of the effect of its user interface may also weigh in favor
      of establishing a dark pattern.

Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Sections 1798.100,
1798.105, 1798.106, 1798.110, 1798.115, 1798.120, 1798.121, 1798.125, 1798.130,
1798.135, 1798.140 and 1798.185, Civil Code.

                  ARTICLE 2. REQUIRED DISCLOSURES TO CONSUMERS

§ 7010. Overview of Required Disclosures.

(a) Every business that must comply with the CCPA and these regulations shall
      provide a privacy policy in accordance with the CCPA and section 7011.

(b) A business that controls the collection of a consumer's personal information
      from a consumer shall provide a Notice at Collection in accordance with the
      CCPA and section 7012.

(c) A business that uses ADMT as set forth in section 7200, subsection (a), must
      provide consumers with a Pre-use Notice in accordance with section 7220.

(d) Except as set forth in section 7221, subsection (b), a business that uses ADMT
      as set forth in section 7200, subsection (a), must include in its Pre-use Notice a
      link through which consumers can opt-out of the business's use of ADMT, in
      accordance with section 7221, subsection (c)(1).

(e) (c) Except as set forth in section 7025, subsection (g), a business that sells or
      shares personal information shall provide a Notice of Right to Opt-out of
      Sale/Sharing or the Alternative Opt-out Link in accordance with the CCPA and
      sections 7013 and 7015.

(f) (d) A business that uses or discloses a consumer's sensitive personal
      information for purposes other than those specified in section 7027,
      subsection (m), shall provide a Notice of Right to Limit or the Alternative Opt-
      out Link in accordance with the CCPA and sections 7014 and 7015.

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 22 of 127
(g) (e) A business that offers a financial incentive or price or service difference
      shall provide a Notice of Financial Incentive in accordance with the CCPA and
      section 7016.

Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Sections 1798.100,
1798.105, 1798.106, 1798.110, 1798.115, 1798.120, 1798.121, 1798.125, 1798.130, and
1798.135, and 1798.185, Civil Code.

§ 7011. Privacy Policy.

(a) The purpose of the privacy policy is to provide consumers with a
      comprehensive description of a business's online and offline information
      practices. It shall also inform consumers about the rights they have regarding
      their personal information and provide any information necessary for them to
      exercise those rights.

(b) The privacy policy shall comply with section 7003, subsections (a) and (b).

(c) The privacy policy shall be available in a format that allows a consumer to print
      it out as a document.

(d) The privacy policy shall be posted online and accessible through a
      conspicuous link that complies with section 7003, subsections (c) and (d),
      using the word "privacy" on the business's website homepage(s) or on the
      download or landing page of a mobile application. If the business has a
      California-specific description of consumers' privacy rights on its website, then
      the privacy policy shall be included in that description. A business that does
      not operate a website shall make the privacy policy conspicuously available to
      consumers. A mobile application may must also include a link to the privacy
      policy in the application's settings menu.

(e) The privacy policy shall include the following information:

      (1) A comprehensive description of the business's online and offline
             information practices, which includes the following:

             (A) Identification of the categories of personal information the business
                    has collected about consumers in the preceding 12 months. The
                    categories shall be described using the specific terms set forth in
                    Civil Code section 1798.140, subdivisions (v)(1)(A) to - (K) and (ae)(1)

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 23 of 127
                    to - (2). To the extent that the business has discretion in its
                    description, the business shall describe the category in a manner
                    that provides consumers a meaningful understanding of the
                    information being collected.

             (B) Identification of the categories of sources from which the personal
                    information is collected. The categories shall be described in a
                    manner that provides consumers a meaningful understanding of
                    where the information is collected.

             (C) Identification of the specific business or commercial purpose for
                    collecting personal information from consumers. The purpose shall
                    be described in a manner that provides consumers a meaningful
                    understanding of why the information is collected.

             (D) Identification of the categories of personal information, if any, that
                    the business has sold or shared to third parties in the preceding 12
                    months. If the business has not sold or shared consumers' personal
                    information in the preceding 12 months, the business shall disclose
                    that fact.

             (E) For each category of personal information identified in subsection
                    (e)(1)(D), the categories of third parties to whom the information was
                    sold or shared. The categories of third parties shall be described in a
                    manner that provides consumers a meaningful understanding of the
                    parties to whom the information is sold or shared.

             (F) Identification of the specific business or commercial purpose for
                    selling or sharing consumers' personal information. The purpose
                    shall be described in a manner that provides consumers a meaningful
                    understanding of why the information is sold or shared.

             (G) A statement regarding whether the business has actual knowledge
                    that it sells or shares the personal information of consumers under
                    16 years of age.

             (H) Identification of the categories of personal information, if any, that
                    the business has disclosed to a service provider or contractor for a
                    business purpose to third parties in the preceding 12 months. If the

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 24 of 127
                    business has not disclosed consumers' personal information for a
                    business purpose in the preceding 12 months, the business shall
                    disclose that fact.

             (I) For each category of personal information identified in subsection
                    (e)(1)(H), the categories of third parties to whom the information was
                    disclosed. (J) Identification of the specific business or commercial
                    purpose for disclosing the consumer's personal information. The
                    purpose shall be described in a manner that provides consumers a
                    meaningful understanding of why the information is disclosed.

             (J) (K) A statement regarding whether the business uses or discloses
                    sensitive personal information for purposes other than those
                    specified in section 7027, subsection (m).

      (2) An explanation of the rights that the CCPA confers on consumers
             regarding their personal information, which includes all of the following:

             (A) The right to know what personal information the business has
                    collected about the consumer, including the categories of personal
                    information, the categories of sources from which the personal
                    information is collected, the business or commercial purpose for
                    collecting, selling, or sharing personal information, the categories of
                    third parties to whom the business discloses personal information,
                    and the specific pieces of personal information the business has
                    collected about the consumer.

             (B) The right to delete personal information that the business has
                    collected from the consumer, subject to certain exceptions.

             (C) The right to correct inaccurate personal information that a business
                    maintains about a consumer.

             (D) If the business sells or shares personal information, the right to opt-
                    out of the sale or sharing of their personal information by the
                    business.

             (E) If the business uses or discloses sensitive personal information for
                    reasons other than those set forth in section 7027, subsection (m),

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 25 of 127
                    the right to limit the use or disclosure of sensitive personal
                    information by the business.

             (F) Except as set forth in section 7221, subsection (b), if the business
                    uses ADMT as set forth in section 7200, subsection (a), the right to
                    opt-out of ADMT.

             (G) If the business uses ADMT as set forth in section 7200, subsection
                    (a), the right to access ADMT.

             (H) The right not to be retaliated against receive discriminatory
                    treatment by the business for the exercise of for exercising privacy
                    rights conferred by the CCPA, including when a consumer is an
                    applicant to an educational program, a job applicant, a student, an
                    employee's, applicant's, or an independent contractor's right not to
                    be retaliated against for the exercise of their CCPA rights.

      (3) An explanation of how consumers can exercise their CCPA rights and
             what consumers can expect from that process, which includes all of the
             following:

             (A) An explanation of the methods by which the consumer can exercise
                    their CCPA rights.

             (B) Instructions for submitting a request under the CCPA, including any
                    links to an online request form or portal for making such a request, if
                    offered by the business.

             (C) If the business sells or shares personal information, and is required to
                    provide a Notice of Right to Opt-out of Sale/Sharing, the contents of
                    the Notice of Right to Opt-out of Sale/Sharing or a link to that notice
                    in accordance with section 7013, subsection (f).

             (D) If the business uses or discloses sensitive personal information for
                    purposes other than those specified in section 7027, subsection (m),
                    and is required to provide a Notice of Right to Limit, the contents of
                    the Notice of Right to Limit or a link to that notice in accordance with
                    section 7014, subsection (f).

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 26 of 127
             (E) A general description of the process the business uses to verify a
                    consumer request to know, request to delete, and request to correct,
                    and request to access ADMT, when applicable, including any
                    information the consumer must provide.

             (F) Explanation of how an opt-out preference signal will be processed
                    for the consumer (i.e., whether the signal applies to the device,
                    browser, consumer account, and/or offline sales, and in what
                    circumstances) and how the consumer can use an opt-out preference
                    signal.

             (G) If the business processes opt-out preference signals in a frictionless
                    manner, information on how consumers can implement opt-out
                    preference signals for the business to process in a frictionless
                    manner.

             (H) Instructions on how an authorized agent can make a request under
                    the CCPA on the consumer's behalf.

             (I) If the business has actual knowledge that it sells the personal
                    information of consumers under 16 years of age, a description of the
                    processes required by sections 7070 and 7071.

             (J) A contact for questions or concerns about the business's privacy
                    policies and information practices using a method reflecting the
                    manner in which the business primarily interacts with the consumer.

      (4) Date the privacy policy was last updated.

      (5) If subject to the data reporting requirements set forth in section 7102, the
             information required under section 7102, or a link to that information.

Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Sections 1798.100,
1798.105, 1798.106, 1798.110, 1798.115, 1798.120, 1798.121, 1798.125, 1798.130, and
1798.135, and 1798.185, Civil Code.

§ 7012. Notice at Collection of Personal Information.

(a) The purpose of the Notice at Collection is to provide consumers with timely
      notice, at or before the point of collection, about the categories of personal

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 27 of 127
      information to be collected from them, the purposes for which the personal
      information is collected or used, and whether that information is sold or
      shared, so that consumers have a tool to exercise meaningful control over the
      business's use of their personal information. For example, upon receiving the
      Notice at Collection, the consumer can use the information in the notice as a
      tool to choose whether to engage with the business, or to direct the business
      not to sell or share their personal information and to limit the use and
      disclosure of their sensitive personal information.

(b) The Notice at Collection shall comply with section 7003, subsections (a) and
      (b).

(c) The Notice at Collection shall be made readily available where consumers will
      encounter it at or before the point of collection of any personal information.
      Illustrative examples follow.

      (1) When a business collects consumers' personal information online, it may
             post a conspicuous link to the notice on the introductory page of the
             business's website and on all webpages where personal information is
             collected.

      (2) When a business collects consumers' personal information through a
             webform, it may post a conspicuous link to the notice in close proximity to
             the fields in which the consumer inputs their personal information, or in
             close proximity to the button by which the consumer submits their
             personal information to the business.

      (3) When a business collects personal information through a mobile
             application, it may provide a link to the notice on the mobile application's
             download page and within the application, such as through the
             application's settings menu.

      (4) When a business collects consumers' personal information offline, it may
             include the notice on printed forms that collect personal information,
             provide the consumer with a paper version of the notice, or post
             prominent signage directing consumers to where the notice can be found
             online.

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 28 of 127
      (5) When a business collects personal information over the telephone or in
             person, it may provide the notice orally.

(d) If a business does not give the Notice at Collection to the consumer at or
      before the point of collection of their personal information, the business shall
      not collect personal information from the consumer.

(e) A business shall include the following in its Notice at Collection:

      (1) A list of the categories of personal information about consumers,
             including categories of sensitive personal information, to be collected.
             Each category of personal information shall be written in a manner that
             provides consumers a meaningful understanding of the information being
             collected.

      (2) The purpose(s) for which the categories of personal information, including
             categories of sensitive personal information, are collected and used.

      (3) Whether each category of personal information identified in subsection
             (e)(1) is sold or shared.

      (4) The length of time the business intends to retain each category of
             personal information identified in subsection (e)(1), or if that is not
             possible, the criteria used to determine the period of time it will be
             retained.

      (5) If the business sells or shares personal information, the link to the Notice
             of Right to Opt-out of Sale/Sharing, or in the case of offline notices,
             where the webpage can be found online.

      (6) A link to the business's privacy policy, or in the case of offline notices,
             where the privacy policy can be found online.

(f) If a business collects personal information from a consumer online, the Notice
      at Collection may be given to the consumer by providing a link that takes the
      consumer directly to the specific section of the business's privacy policy that
      contains the information required in subsections (e)(1) through - (6). Directing
      the consumer to the beginning of the privacy policy, or to another section of
      the privacy policy that does not contain the required information, so that the
      consumer is required to scroll through other information in order to determine

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 29 of 127
      the categories of personal information to be collected and/or whether the
      business sells or shares the personal information collected, does not satisfy
      this standard.

(g) Third Parties that Control the Collection of Personal Information. This
      subsection shall not affect the first party's obligations under the CCPA to
      comply with a consumer's request to opt-out of sale/sharing.

      (1) For purposes of giving Notice at Collection, more than one business may
             control the collection of a consumer's personal information, and thus,
             have an obligation to provide a Notice at Collection in accordance with the
             CCPA and these regulations. For example, a first party may allow another
             business, acting as a third party, to control the collection of personal
             information from consumers browsing the first party's website. Both the
             first party that allows the third parties to collect personal information via
             its website, as well as the third party controlling the collection of personal
             information, shall provide a Notice at Collection. The first party and third
             parties may provide a single Notice at Collection that includes the
             required information about their collective information practices.

      (2) A business that, acting as a third party, controls the collection of personal
             information on another business's physical premises, such as in a retail
             store or in a vehicle, shall provide a Notice at Collection in a conspicuous
             manner at the physical location(s) where it is collecting the personal
             information.

      (3) Illustrative examples follow.

             (A) Business F allows Business G, a third party ad network, to collect
                    consumers' personal information through Business F's website.
                    Business F may post a conspicuous link to its Notice at Collection on
                    its homepage(s). Business G shall provide a Notice at Collection on
                    its homepage(s) or include the required information about its
                    information practices in Business F's Notice at Collection.

             (B) Business H, a coffee shop, allows Business I, a business providing Wi-
                    Fi services, to collect personal information from consumers using
                    Business I's services on Business H's premises. Business H may post
                    conspicuous signage at the entrance of the store or at the point-of-

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 30 of 127
                    sale directing consumers to where the Notice at Collection for
                    Business H can be found online. In addition, Business I shall post its
                    own Notice at Collection on the first webpage or other interface
                    consumers see before connecting to the Wi-Fi services offered.

             (C) Business J, a car rental business, allows Business K to collect
                    personal information from consumers within the vehicles Business J
                    rents to consumers. Business J may give its Notice at Collection to
                    the consumer at the point of sale (i.e., at the rental counter) either in
                    writing or orally. Business K may provide its own Notice at Collection
                    within the vehicle, such as through signage on the vehicle's
                    dashboard directing consumers to where the notice can be found
                    online.

(h) A business that neither collects nor controls the collection of personal
      information directly from the consumer does not need to provide a Notice at
      Collection to the consumer if it neither sells nor shares the consumer's
      personal information.

(i) A data broker registered with the Attorney General pursuant to Civil Code
      section 1798.99.80 et seq. that collects personal information from a source
      other than directly from the consumer does not need to provide a Notice at
      Collection to the consumer if it has included in its registration submission a
      link to its online privacy policy that includes instructions on how a consumer
      can submit a request to opt-out of sale/sharing.

Note: Authority: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Sections 1798.99.82,
1798.100, 1798.115, 1798.120, 1798.121, 1798.145 and 1798.185, Civil Code.

§ 7013. Notice of Right to Opt-out of Sale/Sharing and the "Do Not Sell or Share
My Personal Information" Link.

(a) The purpose of the Notice of Right to Opt-out of Sale/Sharing is to inform
      consumers of their right to direct a business that sells or shares their personal
      information to stop selling or sharing their personal information and to provide
      them with the opportunity to exercise that right. The purpose of the "Do Not
      Sell or Share My Personal Information" link is to immediately effectuate the
      consumer's right to opt-out of sale/sharing, or in the alternative, direct the
      consumer to the Notice of Right to Opt-out of Sale/Sharing. Accordingly,

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 31 of 127
      clicking the business's "Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information" link will
      either have the immediate effect of opting the consumer out of the sale or
      sharing of personal information or lead the consumer to a webpage where the
      consumer can learn about and make that choice.

(b) The Notice of Right to Opt-out of Sale/Sharing shall comply with section 7003,
      subsections (a) and (b).

(c) The "Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information" link shall be a conspicuous
      link that complies with section 7003, subsections (c) and (d) and is located at
      either the header or footer of the business's internet homepage(s).

(d) In lieu of posting the "Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information" link, a
      business may provide the Alternative Opt-out Link in accordance with section
      7015 or process opt-out preference signals in a frictionless manner in
      accordance with section 7025, subsections (f) and (g). The business must still
      post a Notice of Right to Opt-out of Sale/Sharing in accordance with these
      regulations.

(e) A business that sells or shares the personal information of consumers shall
      provide the Notice of Right to Opt-out of Sale/Sharing to consumers as
      follows:

      (1) A business shall post the Notice of Right to Opt-out of Sale/Sharing on
             the internet webpage to which the consumer is directed after clicking on
             the "Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information" link. The notice shall
             include the information specified in subsection (f) or be a link that takes
             the consumer directly to the specific section of the business's privacy
             policy that contains the same information. If clicking on the "Do Not Sell
             or Share My Personal Information" link immediately effectuates the
             consumer's right to opt-out of sale/sharing or if the business processes
             opt-out preference signals in a frictionless manner and chooses not to
             post a link, the business shall provide the notice within its privacy policy.

      (2) A business that does not operate a website shall establish, document, and
             comply with another method by which it informs consumers of their right
             to opt-out of sale/sharing. That method shall comply with the
             requirements set forth in section 7003.

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 32 of 127
      (3) A business shall also provide the notice to opt-out of sale/sharing in the
             same manner in which it collects the personal information that it sells or
             shares. Illustrative examples and requirements follow.

             (A) A business that sells or shares personal information that it collects in
                    the course of interacting with consumers offline, such as in a brick-
                    and-mortar store, shall provide notice through an offline method,
                    e.g., on the paper forms that collect the personal information or by
                    posting signage in the area where the personal information is
                    collected directing consumers to where the notice can be found
                    online.

             (B) A business that sells or shares personal information that it collects
                    over the phone shall provide notice orally during the call when the
                    information is collected.

             (C) A business that sells or shares personal information that it collects
                    through a connected device (e.g., a smart television or a smart watch)
                    shall provide notice in a manner that ensures that the consumer will
                    encounter the notice before or at the time the device begins
                    collecting the personal information that it sells or shares.

             (D) A business that sells or shares personal information that it collects in
                    augmented or virtual reality, such as through gaming devices or
                    mobile applications, shall provide notice in a manner that ensures
                    that the consumer will encounter the notice either: (1) before or at
                    the time the consumer enters the augmented or virtual reality
                    environment; or (2) before or at the time the consumer encounters
                    the business within the augmented or virtual reality environment.

(f) A business shall include the following in its Notice of Right to Opt-out of
      Sale/Sharing:

      (1) A description of the consumer's right to opt-out of the sale or sharing of
             their personal information by the business; and

      (2) Instructions on how the consumer can submit a request to opt-out of
             sale/sharing. If notice is provided online, the notice shall include the
             interactive form by which the consumer can submit their request to opt-

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 33 of 127
             out of sale/sharing online, as required by section 7026, subsection (a)(1). If
             the business does not operate a website, the notice shall explain the
             offline method by which the consumer can submit their request to opt-out
             of sale/sharing.

(g) A business does not need to provide a Notice of Right to Opt-out of
      Sale/Sharing or the "Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information" link if:

      (1) It does not sell or share personal information; and

      (2) It states in its privacy policy that it does not sell or share personal
             information.

(h) A business shall not sell or share the personal information it collected during
      the time the business did not have a Notice of Right to Opt-out of Sale/Sharing
      posted unless it obtains the consent of the consumer.

Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Sections 1798.120,
1798.135 and 1798.185, Civil Code.

§ 7014. Notice of Right to Limit and the "Limit the Use of My Sensitive Personal
Information" Link.

(a) The purpose of the Notice of Right to Limit is to inform consumers of their right
      to limit a business's use and disclosure of their sensitive personal information
      and to provide them with the opportunity to exercise that right. The purpose of
      the "Limit the Use of My Sensitive Personal Information" link is to immediately
      effectuate the consumer's right to limit, or in the alternative, direct the
      consumer to the Notice of Right to Limit. Accordingly, clicking the business's
      "Limit the Use of My Sensitive Personal Information" link will either have the
      immediate effect of limiting the use and disclosure of the consumer's sensitive
      personal information or lead the consumer to a webpage where the consumer
      can learn about and make that choice.

(b) The Notice of Right to Limit shall comply with section 7003, subsections (a)
      and (b).

(c) The "Limit the Use of My Sensitive Personal Information" link shall be a
      conspicuous link that complies with section 7003, subsections (c) and (d), and

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 34 of 127
      is located at either the header or footer of the business's internet
      homepage(s).

(d) In lieu of posting the "Limit the Use of My Sensitive Personal Information" link,
      a business may provide the Alternative Opt-out Link in accordance with section
      7015. The business shall still post a Notice of Right to Limit in accordance with
      these regulations.

(e) A business that uses or discloses a consumer's sensitive personal information
      for purposes other than those specified in section 7027, subsection (m), shall
      provide the Notice of Right to Limit to consumers as follows:

      (1) A business shall post the Notice of Right to Limit on the internet webpage
             to which the consumer is directed after clicking on the "Limit the Use of
             My Sensitive Personal Information" link. The notice shall include the
             information specified in subsection (f) or be a link that takes the consumer
             directly to the specific section of the business's privacy policy that
             contains the same information. If clicking on the "Limit the Use of My
             Sensitive Personal Information" link immediately effectuates the
             consumer's right to limit, the business shall provide the notice within its
             privacy policy.

      (2) A business that does not operate a website shall establish, document, and
             comply with another method by which it informs consumers of their right
             to limit. That method shall comply with the requirements set forth in
             section 7003.

      (3) A business shall also provide the Notice of Right to Limit in the same
             manner in which it collects the sensitive personal information that it uses
             or discloses for purposes other than those specified in Section 7027,
             subsection (m). Illustrative examples and requirements follow.

             (A) A business that uses or discloses sensitive personal information that
                    it collects in the course of interacting with consumers offline, such
                    as in a brick-and-mortar store, for purposes other than those
                    specified in section 7027, subsection (m), shall provide notice
                    through an offline method (e.g., on the paper forms that collect the
                    sensitive personal information or by posting signage in the area

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 35 of 127
                    where the sensitive personal information is collected directing
                    consumers to where the notice can be found online).

             (B) A business that uses or discloses sensitive personal information that
                    it collects over the phone for purposes other than those specified in
                    section 7027, subsection (m), shall provide notice orally during the
                    call when the information is collected.

             (C) A business that uses or discloses sensitive personal information that
                    it collects through a connected device (e.g., a smart television or a
                    smart watch) for purposes other than those specified in section
                    7027, subsection (m), shall provide notice in a manner that ensures
                    that the consumer will encounter the notice before or at the time the
                    device begins collecting the personal information that it uses or
                    discloses for those purposes.

             (D) A business that uses or discloses sensitive personal information that
                    it collects in augmented or virtual reality, such as through gaming
                    devices or mobile applications, for purposes other than those
                    specified in section 7027, subsection (m), shall provide notice in a
                    manner that ensures that the consumer will encounter the notice
                    either: (1) before the consumer enters the augmented or virtual
                    reality environment; or (2) before or at the time the business collects
                    the personal information within the augmented or virtual reality
                    environment.

(f) A business shall include the following in its Notice of Right to Limit:

      (1) A description of the consumer's right to limit; and

      (2) Instructions on how the consumer can submit a request to limit. If notice is
             provided online, the notice shall include the interactive form by which the
             consumer can submit their request to limit online, as required by section
             7027, subsection (b)(1). If the business does not operate a website, the
             notice shall explain the offline method by which the consumer can submit
             their request to limit.

(g) A business does not need to provide a Notice of Right to Limit or the "Limit the
      Use of My Sensitive Personal Information" link if:

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 36 of 127
      (1) It only uses and discloses sensitive personal information that it collected
             about the consumer for the purposes specified in section 7027,
             subsection (m), and states so in its privacy policy; or

      (2) It only collects or processes sensitive personal information without the
             purpose of inferring characteristics about a consumer, and states so in its
             privacy policy.

(h) A business shall not use or disclose sensitive personal information it collected
      during the time the business did not have a Notice of Right to Limit posted for
      purposes other than those specified in section 7027, subsection (m), unless it
      obtains the consent of the consumer.

Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Sections 1798.121,
1798.135 and 1798.185, Civil Code.

§ 7015. Alternative Opt-out Link.

(a) The purpose of the Alternative Opt-out Link is to provide businesses the option
      of providing consumers with a single, clearly-labeled link that allows
      consumers to easily exercise both their right to opt-out of sale/sharing and
      right to limit, instead of posting the two separate "Do Not Sell or Share My
      Personal Information" and "Limit the Use of My Sensitive Personal Information"
      links. The Alternative Opt-out Link shall direct the consumer to a webpage that
      informs them of both their right to opt-out of sale/sharing and right to limit and
      provides them with the opportunity to exercise both rights.

(b) A business that chooses to use an Alternative Opt-out Link shall title the link,
      "Your Privacy Choices," or, "Your California Privacy Choices," and shall include
      the following opt-out icon adjacent to the title.

      (1) The link shall be a conspicuous link that complies with section 7003,
             subsections (c) and (d), and is located at either the header or footer of the
             business's internet homepage(s).

      (2) The icon shall be approximately the same size as other icons used by the
             business in the header or footer of its webpage.

      (3) Businesses may adjust the color of the icon to ensure that the icon is
             conspicuous. For example, if the webpage background is the same color

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 37 of 127
             of blue as the icon, the business may invert or change the colors of the
             icon to ensure visibility.

(c) The Alternative Opt-out Link shall direct the consumer to a webpage that
      includes the following information:

      (1) A description of the consumer's right to opt-out of sale/sharing and right
             to limit, which shall comply with section 7003, subsections (a) and (b); and

      (2) The interactive form or mechanism by which the consumer can submit
             their request to opt-out of sale/sharing and their right to limit online. The
             method shall be easy for consumers to execute, shall require minimal
             steps, and shall comply with section 7004.

Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Sections 1798.120,
1798.121, 1798.135 and 1798.185, Civil Code.

   ARTICLE 3. BUSINESS PRACTICES FOR HANDLING CONSUMER REQUESTS

§ 7020. Methods for Submitting Requests to Delete, Requests to Correct, and
Requests to Know.

(a) A business that operates exclusively online and has a direct relationship with a
      consumer from whom it collects personal information shall only be required to
      provide an email address for submitting requests to delete, requests to
      correct, and requests to know.

(b) A business that does not fit the description in subsection (a) shall provide two
      or more designated methods for submitting requests to delete, requests to
      correct, and requests to know. One of those methods must be a toll-free
      telephone number. If the business maintains an internet website, one of the
      methods for submitting these requests shall be through its website, such as
      through a webform. Other methods for submitting requests to delete, requests
      to correct, and requests to know may include, but are not limited to, a
      designated email address, a form submitted in person, and a form submitted
      through the mail.

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 38 of 127
(c) A business shall consider the methods by which it primarily interacts with
      consumers when determining which methods to provide for submitting
      requests to delete, requests to correct, and requests to know. If the business
      interacts with consumers in person, the business shall consider providing an
      in-person method such as a printed form the consumer can directly submit or
      send by mail, a tablet or computer portal that allows the consumer to
      complete and submit an online form, or a telephone with which the consumer
      can call the business's toll-free number.

(d) A business may use a two-step process for online requests to delete where the
      consumer must first, submit the request to delete and then second, separately
      confirm that they want their personal information deleted provided that the
      business otherwise complies with section 7004.

(e) If a business maintains personal information for longer than 12 months, its
      method for consumers to submit requests to know shall include a means by
      which the consumer can request that the business provide personal
      information collected prior to the 12-month period preceding the business's
      receipt of the consumer's request. For example, the business may ask the
      consumer to select or input the date range for which the consumer is making
      the request to know or present the consumer with an option to request all
      personal information the business has collected about the consumer. Use of
      this method is not required for personal information collected prior to January
      1, 2022, pursuant to Civil Code section 1798.130, subdivision (a)(2)(B).

(f) If a consumer submits a request in a manner that is not one of the designated
      methods of submission, or is deficient in some manner unrelated to the
      verification process, the business shall either:

      (1) Treat the request as if it had been submitted in accordance with the
             business's designated manner, or

      (2) Provide the consumer with information on how to submit the request or
             remedy any deficiencies with the request, if applicable.

Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Sections 1798.100,
1798.105, 1798.106, 1798.110, 1798.115, 1798.130, 1798.140 and 1798.185, Civil Code.

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 39 of 127
§ 7021. Timelines for Responding to Requests to Delete, Requests to Correct, and
Requests to Know, Requests to Access ADMT, and Requests to Appeal ADMT.

(a) No later than 10 business days after receiving a request to delete, request to
      correct, or request to know, request to access ADMT, or request to appeal
      ADMT, a business shall confirm receipt of the request and provide information
      about how the business will process the request. The information provided
      shall describe in general the business's verification process and when the
      consumer should expect a response, except in instances where the business
      has already granted or denied the request. The confirmation may be given in
      the same manner in which the request was received. For example, if the
      request is made over the phone, the confirmation may be given orally during
      the phone call.

(b) Businesses shall respond to a request to delete, request to correct, and
      request to know, request to access ADMT, and request to appeal ADMT no
      later than 45 calendar days after receipt of the request. The 45-day period will
      begin on the day that the business receives the request, regardless of time
      required to verify the request. If the business cannot verify the consumer
      within the 45-day time period, the business may deny the request. If
      necessary, businesses may take up to an additional 45 calendar days to
      respond to the consumer's request, for a maximum total of 90 calendar days
      from the day the request is received, provided that the business provides the
      consumer with notice and an explanation of the reason that the business will
      take more than 45 days to respond to the request.

Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Sections 1798.100,
1798.105, 1798.106, 1798.110, 1798.115, 1798.130, 1798.140 and 1798.185, Civil Code.

§ 7022. Requests to Delete.

(a) For requests to delete, if a business cannot verify the identity of the requestor
      pursuant to the regulations set forth in Article 5, the business may deny the
      request to delete. The business shall inform the requestor that their identity
      cannot be verified.

(b) A business shall comply with a consumer's request to delete their personal
      information by doing all of the following:

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 40 of 127
      (1) Permanently and completely erasing the personal information from its
             existing systems except archived or backup systems, deidentifying the
             personal information, or aggregating the consumer information.;

      (2) Notifying the business's service providers or contractors of the need to
             delete from their records the consumer's personal information that they
             collected pursuant to their written contract with the business, or if
             enabled to do so by the service provider or contractor, the business shall
             delete the personal information that the service provider or contractor
             collected pursuant to their written contract with the business.; and

      (3) Notifying all third parties to whom the business has sold or shared the
             personal information of the need to delete the consumer's personal
             information unless this proves impossible or involves disproportionate
             effort. If a business claims that notifying some or all third parties would
             be impossible or would involve disproportionate effort, the business shall
             provide the consumer a detailed explanation that includes enough facts
             to give a consumer a meaningful understanding as to why the business
             cannot notify all third parties. The business shall not simply state that
             notifying all third parties is impossible or would require disproportionate
             effort.

(c) A service provider or contractor shall, with respect to personal information
      that they collected pursuant to their written contract with the business and
      upon notification by the business, cooperate with the business in responding to
      a request to delete by doing all of the following:

      (1) Permanently and completely erasing the personal information from its
             existing systems except archived or backup systems, deidentifying the
             personal information, aggregating the consumer information, or enabling
             the business to do so.

      (2) To the extent that an exception applies to the deletion of personal
             information, deleting or enabling the business to delete the consumer's
             personal information that is not subject to the exception and refraining
             from using the consumer's personal information retained for any purpose
             other than the purpose provided for by that exception.

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 41 of 127
      (3) Notifying any of its own service providers or contractors of the need to
             delete from their records in the same manner the consumer's personal
             information that they collected pursuant to their written contract with the
             service provider or contractor.

      (4) Notifying any other service providers, contractors, or third parties that
             may have accessed personal information from or through the service
             provider or contractor, unless the information was accessed at the
             direction of the business, of the need to delete the consumer's personal
             information unless this proves impossible or involves disproportionate
             effort.

(d) If a business, service provider, or contractor stores any personal information on
      archived or backup systems, it may delay compliance with the consumer's
      request to delete, with respect to data stored on the archived or backup
      system, until the archived or backup system relating to that data is restored to
      an active system or is next accessed or used for a sale, disclosure, or
      commercial purpose.

(e) In responding to a request to delete, a business shall inform the consumer
      whether it has complied with the consumer's request. The business shall also
      inform the consumer that it will maintain a record of the request as required by
      section 7101, subsection (a). A business, service provider, contractor, or third
      party may retain a record of the request for the purpose of ensuring that the
      consumer's personal information remains deleted from its records.

(f) In cases where a business denies a consumer's request to delete in whole or in
      part, the business shall do all of the following:

      (1) Provide to the consumer a detailed explanation of the basis for the denial,
             including any conflict with federal or state law, exception to the CCPA, or
             factual basis for contending that compliance would be impossible or
             involve disproportionate effort, unless prohibited from doing so by law.

      (2) Delete the consumer's personal information that is not subject to the
             exception.

      (3) Not use the consumer's personal information retained for any other
             purpose than provided for by that exception; and

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 42 of 127
      (4) Instruct its service providers and contractors to delete the consumer's
             personal information that is not subject to the exception and to not use
             the consumer's personal information retained for any purpose other than
             the purpose provided for by that exception.

(g) If a business that denies a consumer's request to delete sells or shares
      personal information and the consumer has not already made a request to opt-
      out of sale/sharing, the business shall ask the consumer if they would like to
      opt-out of the sale or sharing of their personal information and shall include
      either the contents of, or a link to, the Notice of Right to Opt-out of
      Sale/Sharing in accordance with section 7013.

(h) In responding to a request to delete, a business may present the consumer
      with the choice to delete select portions of their personal information as long
      as a single option to delete all personal information is also offered. A business
      that provides consumers the ability to delete select categories of personal
      information in other contexts (e.g., purchase history, browsing history, voice
      recordings), however, must inform consumers of their ability to do so and
      direct them to how they can do so. For example, a business may provide the
      consumer with a link to a support page or other resource that explains
      consumers' data deletion options.

Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Sections 1798.105,
1798.130 and 1798.185, Civil Code.

§ 7023. Requests to Correct.

(a) For requests to correct, if a business cannot verify the identity of the requestor
      pursuant to the regulations set forth in Article 5, the business may deny the
      request to correct. The business shall inform the requestor that their identity
      cannot be verified.

(b) In determining the accuracy of the personal information that is the subject of a
      consumer's request to correct, the business shall consider the totality of the
      circumstances relating to the contested personal information. A business may
      deny a consumer's request to correct if it determines that the contested
      personal information is more likely than not accurate based on the totality of
      the circumstances.

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 43 of 127
      (1) Considering the totality of the circumstances includes, but is not limited
             to, considering:

             (A) The nature of the personal information (e.g., whether it is objective,
                    subjective, unstructured, sensitive, etc.).

             (B) How the business obtained the contested information.

             (C) Documentation relating to the accuracy of the information whether
                    provided by the consumer, the business, or another source.
                    Requirements regarding documentation are set forth in subsection
                    (d).

      (2) If the business is not the source of the personal information and has no
             documentation in support of the accuracy of the information, the
             consumer's assertion of inaccuracy may be sufficient to establish that the
             personal information is inaccurate.

(c) A business that complies with a consumer's request to correct shall correct
      the personal information at issue on its existing systems and ensure that the
      information remains corrected. The business shall also instruct all service
      providers and contractors that maintain the personal information at issue
      pursuant to their written contract with the business to make the necessary
      corrections in their respective systems. Service providers and contractors shall
      comply with the business's instructions to correct the personal information or
      enable the business to make the corrections and shall also ensure that the
      information remains corrected. If a business, service provider, or contractor
      stores any personal information that is the subject of the request to correct on
      archived or backup systems, it may delay compliance with the consumer's
      request to correct, with respect to data stored on the archived or backup
      system, until the archived or backup system relating to that data is restored to
      an active system or is next accessed or used. Illustrative examples follow:

      (1) Business L maintains personal information about consumers that it
             receives from data brokers on a regular basis. Business L refreshes the
             personal information it maintains about consumers whenever it receives
             an update from a data broker. Business L receives a request to correct
             from a consumer and determines that the information is inaccurate. To
             comply with the consumer's request, Business L corrects the inaccurate

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 44 of 127
             information in its system and ensures that the corrected personal
             information is not overridden by inaccurate personal information
             subsequently received from a data broker.

      (2) Business M stores personal information about consumers on archived or
             backup systems. Business M receives a request to correct from a
             consumer, determines that the information is inaccurate, and makes the
             necessary corrections within its active system. Business M may delay
             compliance with the consumer's request to correct with respect to data
             stored on the archived or backup system until the archived or backup
             system relating to the personal information at issue is restored to an
             active system or next accessed or used for a sale, disclosure, or
             commercial purpose.

(d) Documentation.

      (1) A business shall accept, review, and consider any documentation that the
             consumer provides in connection with their right to correct whether
             provided voluntarily or as required by the business. Consumers should
             make a good-faith effort to provide businesses with all necessary
             information available at the time of the request.

      (2) A business may require the consumer to provide documentation if
             necessary to rebut its own documentation that the personal information is
             accurate. In determining the necessity of the documentation requested,
             the business shall consider the following:

             (A) The nature of the personal information at issue (e.g., whether it is
                    objective, subjective, unstructured, sensitive, etc.).

             (B) The nature of the documentation upon which the business considers
                    the personal information to be accurate (e.g., whether the
                    documentation is from a trusted source, whether the documentation
                    is verifiable, etc.)

             (C) The purpose for which the business collects, maintains, or uses the
                    personal information. For example, if the personal information is
                    essential to the functioning of the business, the business may require
                    more documentation.

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 45 of 127
             (D) The impact on the consumer. For example, if the personal information
                    has a negative impact on the consumer, the business may require
                    less documentation.

      (3) Any documentation provided by the consumer in connection with their
             request to correct shall only be used and/or maintained by the business
             for the purpose of correcting the consumer's personal information and to
             comply with the record-keeping obligations under section 7101.

      (4) The business shall implement and maintain reasonable security
             procedures and practices in maintaining any documentation relating to
             the consumer's request to correct.

(e) A business may delete the contested personal information as an alternative to
      correcting the information if the deletion of the personal information does not
      negatively impact the consumer, or the consumer consents to the deletion. For
      example, if deleting instead of correcting inaccurate personal information
      would make it harder for the consumer to obtain a job, housing, credit,
      education, or other type of opportunity, the business shall process the request
      to correct or obtain the consumer's consent to delete the information.

(f) In responding to a request to correct, a business shall inform the consumer
      whether it has complied with the consumer's request. If the business denies a
      consumer's request to correct in whole or in part, the business shall do the
      following:

      (1) Explain the basis for the denial, including any conflict with federal or
             state law, exception to the CCPA, inadequacy in the required
             documentation, or contention that compliance proves impossible or
             involves disproportionate effort.

      (2) If a business claims that complying with the consumer's request to
             correct would be impossible or would involve disproportionate effort, the
             business shall provide the consumer a detailed explanation that includes
             enough facts to give a consumer a meaningful understanding as to why
             the business cannot comply with the request. The business shall not
             simply state that it is impossible or would require disproportionate effort.

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 46 of 127
      (3) If a business denies a consumer's request to correct personal information
             collected and analyzed concerning a consumer's health, the business
             shall also inform the consumer that they may provide a written statement
             to the business to be made part of the consumer's record pursuant to Civil
             Code section 1798.185, subdivision (a)(78)(D). The business shall explain
             to the consumer that the written statement is limited to 250 words per
             alleged inaccurate piece of personal information and shall include that
             the consumer must request that the statement be made part of the
             consumer's record. Upon receipt of such a statement, the business shall
             include it with the consumer's record. Upon the consumer's request, the
             business shall make the statement available to any person with whom it
             discloses, shares, or sells the personal information that is the subject of
             the request to correct.

      (4) If the personal information at issue can be deleted pursuant to a request
             to delete, inform the consumer that they can make a request to delete the
             personal information and provide instructions on how the consumer can
             make a request to delete.

(g) A business may deny a consumer's request to correct if the business has
      denied the consumer's request to correct the same alleged inaccuracy within
      the past six months of receiving the request. However, the business must treat
      the request to correct as new if the consumer provides new or additional
      documentation to prove that the information at issue is inaccurate.

(h) A business may deny a request to correct if it has a good-faith, reasonable, and
      documented belief that a request to correct is fraudulent or abusive. The
      business shall inform the requestor that it will not comply with the request and
      shall provide an explanation why it believes the request is fraudulent or
      abusive.

(i) Where the business is not the source of the information that the consumer
      contends is inaccurate, in addition to processing the consumer's request, the
      business may must provide the consumer with the name of the source from
      which the business received the alleged inaccurate information, or in the
      alternative, inform the source that the information provided is incorrect and
      must be corrected.

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 47 of 127
(j) Upon request, a business shall disclose specific pieces of personal information
      that the business maintains and has collected about the consumer to allow the
      consumer to confirm that the business has corrected the inaccurate
      information that was the subject of the consumer's request to correct. This
      disclosure shall not be considered a response to a request to know that is
      counted towards the limitation of two requests within a 12-month period as set
      forth in Civil Code section 1798.130, subdivision (b). With regard to a correction
      to a consumer's Social Security number, driver's license number or other
      government-issued identification number, financial account number, any
      health insurance or medical identification number, an account password,
      security questions and answers, or unique biometric data generated from
      measurements or technical analysis of human characteristics, a business shall
      not disclose this information, but may must provide a way to confirm that the
      personal information it maintains is the same as what the verified consumer
      has provided. For example, the business can have the consumer use its toll-
      free phone number and provide the information that they seek to confirm.
      After verifying the consumer, the business can confirm whether the
      information provided by the consumer matches what they have in their system.

(k) Whether a business, service provider, or contractor has implemented measures
      to ensure that personal information that is the subject of a request to correct
      remains corrected factors into whether that business, service provider, or
      contractor has complied with a consumer's request to correct in accordance
      with the CCPA and these regulations. For example, if a business, service
      provider, or contractor may supplements personal information it maintains
      about consumers with information obtained from a data broker, f. Failing to
      consider and address the possibility that corrected information may be
      overridden by inaccurate information subsequently received from a data
      broker may factors into whether that business, service provider, or contractor
      has adequately complied with a consumer's request to correct.

Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Sections 1798.81.5,
1798.106, 1798.130 and 1798.185, Civil Code.

§ 7024. Requests to Know.

(a) For requests that seek the disclosure of specific pieces of information about
      the consumer, if a business cannot verify the identity of the person making the

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 48 of 127
      request pursuant to the regulations set forth in Article 5, the business shall
      not disclose any specific pieces of personal information to the requestor and
      shall inform the requestor that it cannot verify their identity. If the request is
      denied in whole or in part, the business shall also evaluate the consumer's
      request as if it is seeking the disclosure of categories of personal information
      about the consumer pursuant to subsection (b).

(b) For requests that seek the disclosure of categories of personal information
      about the consumer, if a business cannot verify the identity of the person
      making the request pursuant to the regulations set forth in Article 5, the
      business may deny the request to disclose the categories and other
      information requested and shall inform the requestor that it cannot verify their
      identity. If the request is denied in whole or in part, the business shall provide
      or direct the consumer to its information practices set forth in its privacy
      policy.

(c) In responding to a request to know, a business is not required to search for
      personal information if all of the following conditions are met:

      (1) The business does not maintain the personal information in a searchable
             or reasonably accessible format.

      (2) The business maintains the personal information solely for legal or
             compliance purposes.

      (3) The business does not sell the personal information and does not use it
             for any commercial purpose.

      (4) The business describes to the consumer the categories of records that
             may contain personal information that it did not search because it meets
             the conditions stated above.

(d) A business shall not disclose in response to a request to know a consumer's
      Social Security number, driver's license number or other government-issued
      identification number, financial account number, any health insurance or
      medical identification number, an account password, security questions and
      answers, or unique biometric data generated from measurements or technical
      analysis of human characteristics. However, the The business shall:, however,

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 49 of 127
      (1) iInform the consumer with sufficient particularity that it has collected the
             type of information. For example, a business shall respond that it collects
             "unique biometric data including a fingerprint scan" without disclosing the
             actual fingerprint scan data.; and

      (2) Provide a way for the consumer to confirm that the personal information
             the business maintains is the same as what the verified consumer
             provides. For example, the business can have the consumer use its toll-
             free phone number and provide the information that they seek to confirm.
             After verifying the consumer, the business can confirm whether the
             information provided by the consumer matches what they have in their
             system.

(e) If a business denies a consumer's verified request to know specific pieces of
      personal information, in whole or in part, because of a conflict with federal or
      state law, or an exception to the CCPA, the business shall inform the requestor
      and explain the basis for the denial, unless prohibited from doing so by law. If
      the request is denied only in part, the business shall disclose the other
      information sought by the consumer. the business shall do all of the following:

      (1) Provide to the consumer a detailed explanation of the basis for the denial,
             including any conflict with federal or state law or exception to the CCPA,
             unless prohibited from doing so by law; and

      (2) Disclose the consumer's personal information that is not subject to the
             exception.

(f) A business shall use reasonable security measures when transmitting personal
      information to the consumer.

(g) If a business maintains a password-protected account with the consumer, it
      may comply with a request to know by using a secure self-service portal for
      consumers to access, view, and receive a portable copy of their personal
      information if the portal fully discloses the personal information that the
      consumer is entitled to under the CCPA and these regulations, uses
      reasonable data security controls, and complies with the verification
      requirements set forth in Article 5.

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 50 of 127
(h) In response to a request to know, a business shall provide all the personal
      information it has collected and maintains about the consumer during the 12-
      month period preceding the business's receipt of the consumer's request. A
      consumer may request that the business provide personal information that the
      business collected beyond the 12-month period, as long as it was collected on
      or after January 1, 2022, and the business shall be required to provide that
      information unless doing so proves impossible or would involve
      disproportionate effort. That information shall include any personal
      information that the business's service providers or contractors collected
      pursuant to their written contract with the business. If a business claims that
      providing personal information beyond the 12-month period preceding the
      business's receipt of the consumer's request would be impossible or would
      involve disproportionate effort, the business shall not be required to provide it
      as long as the business provides the consumer a detailed explanation that
      includes enough facts to give a consumer a meaningful understanding as to
      why the business cannot provide personal information beyond the 12-month
      period. The business shall not simply state that it is impossible or would
      require disproportionate effort.

(i) A service provider or contractor shall provide assistance to the business in
      responding to a verifiable consumer request to know, including by providing
      the business the consumer's personal information it has in its possession that
      it collected pursuant to their written contract with the business, or by enabling
      the business to access that personal information.

(j) In responding to a consumer's verified request to know categories of personal
      information, categories of sources, and/or categories of third parties, a
      business shall provide an individualized response to the consumer as required
      by the CCPA. It shall not refer the consumer to the businesses' information
      practices outlined in its privacy policy unless its response would be the same
      for all consumers and the privacy policy discloses all the information that is
      otherwise required to be in a response to a request to know such categories.

(k) In responding to a verified request to know categories of personal information,
      the business shall provide all of the following:

      (1) The categories of personal information the business has collected about
             the consumer.

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 51 of 127
      (2) The categories of sources from which the personal information was
             collected.

      (3) The business or commercial purpose for which it collected, or sold, or
             shared the personal information.

      (4) The categories of third parties with whom the business shares discloses
             personal information.

      (5) The categories of personal information that the business sold or shared
             about the consumer, and for each category identified, the categories of
             third parties to whom it sold or shared that particular category of personal
             information.

      (6) The categories of personal information that the business disclosed for a
             business purpose, and for each category identified, the categories of
             service providers or contractors third parties to whom it disclosed that
             particular category of personal information.

(l) A business shall identify the categories of personal information, categories of
      sources of personal information, and categories of third parties to whom a
      business sold or shared disclosed personal information, and categories of
      service providers or contractors to whom a business disclosed personal
      information, in a manner that provides consumers a meaningful understanding
      of the categories listed.

Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Sections 1798.81.5,
1798.110, 1798.115, 1798.130, 1798.140 and 1798.185, Civil Code.

§ 7025. Opt-out Preference Signals.

(a) The purpose of an opt-out preference signal is to provide consumers with a
      simple and easy-to-use method by which consumers interacting with
      businesses online can automatically exercise their right to opt-out of
      sale/sharing. Through an opt-out preference signal, a consumer can opt-out of
      sale and sharing of their personal information with all businesses they interact
      with online without having to make individualized requests with each business.

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 52 of 127
(b) A business that sells or shares personal information shall process any opt-out
      preference signal that meets the following requirements as a valid request to
      opt-out of sale/sharing:

      (1) The signal shall be in a format commonly used and recognized by
             businesses. An example would be an HTTP header field or JavaScript
             object.

      (2) The platform, technology, or mechanism that sends the opt-out
             preference signal shall make clear to the consumer, whether in its
             configuration or in disclosures to the public, that the use of the signal is
             meant to have the effect of opting the consumer out of the sale and
             sharing of their personal information. The configuration or disclosure does
             not need to be tailored only to California or to refer to California.

(c) When a business that collects personal information from consumers online
      receives or detects an opt-out preference signal that complies with subsection
      (b):

      (1) The business shall treat the opt-out preference signal as a valid request
             to opt-out of sale/sharing submitted pursuant to Civil Code section
             1798.120 for that browser or device and any consumer profile associated
             with that browser or device, including pseudonymous profiles. If known,
             the business shall also treat the opt-out preference signal as a valid
             request to opt-out of sale/sharing for the consumer. This is not required
             for a business that does not sell or share personal information.

      (2) The business shall not require a consumer to provide additional
             information beyond what is necessary to send the signal. However, a
             business may provide the consumer with an option to provide additional
             information if it will help facilitate the consumer's request to opt-out of
             sale/sharing. Any information provided by the consumer shall not be used,
             disclosed, or retained for any purpose other than processing the request
             to opt-out of sale/sharing. For example, a business may give the consumer
             the option to provide information that identifies the consumer so that the
             request to opt-out of sale/sharing can apply to offline sale or sharing of
             personal information. However, if the consumer does not respond, the
             business shall still process the opt-out preference signal as a valid

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 53 of 127
             request to opt-out of sale/sharing for that browser or device and any
             consumer profile the business associates with that browser or device,
             including pseudonymous profiles.

      (3) If the opt-out preference signal conflicts with a consumer's business-
             specific privacy setting that allows the business to sell or share their
             personal information, the business shall process the opt-out preference
             signal as a valid request to opt-out of sale/sharing, but may notify the
             consumer of the conflict and provide the consumer with an opportunity to
             consent to the sale or sharing of their personal information. The business
             shall comply with section 7004 in obtaining the consumer's consent to the
             sale or sharing of their personal information. If the consumer consents to
             the sale or sharing of their personal information, the business may ignore
             the opt-out preference signal for as long as the consumer is known to the
             business, but the business must display the status of the consumer's
             choice in accordance with section 7025, subsection (c)(6), and section
             7026, subsection (g).

      (4) If the opt-out preference signal conflicts with the consumer's
             participation in a business's financial incentive program that requires the
             consumer to consent to the sale or sharing of personal information, the
             business may notify the consumer that processing the opt-out preference
             signal as a valid request to opt-out of sale/sharing would withdraw the
             consumer from the financial incentive program and ask the consumer to
             affirm that they intend to withdraw from the financial incentive program.
             If the consumer affirms that they intend to withdraw from the financial
             incentive program, the business shall process the consumer's request to
             opt-out of sale/sharing. If the business asks and the consumer does not
             affirm their intent to withdraw, the business may ignore the opt-out
             preference signal with respect to that consumer's participation in the
             financial incentive program for as long as the consumer is known to the
             business. If the business does not ask the consumer to affirm their intent
             with regard to the financial incentive program, the business shall still
             process the opt-out preference signal as a valid request to opt-out of
             sale/sharing for that browser or device and any consumer profile the
             business associates with that browser or device. In either situation, the

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 54 of 127
             business must display the status of the consumer's choice in accordance
             with section 7025, subsection (c)(6), and section 7026, subsection (g).

      (5) Where the consumer is known to the business, the business shall not
             interpret the absence of an opt-out preference signal after the consumer
             previously sent an opt-out preference signal as consent to opt-in to the
             sale or sharing of personal information.

      (6) A business may must display whether it has processed the consumer's
             opt-out preference signal as a valid request to opt-out of sale/sharing on
             its website. For example, the business may display on its website "Opt-
             Out Request Preference Signal Honored" when a browser, device, or
             consumer using an opt-out preference signal visits the website, or and
             display through a toggle or radio button that the consumer has opted out
             of the sale/sharing of their personal information in accordance with
             section 7026, subsection (g).

      (7) Illustrative examples follow.

             (A) Caleb visits Business N's website using a browser with an opt-out
                    preference signal enabled, but he is not otherwise logged into his
                    account and the business cannot otherwise associate Caleb's
                    browser with a consumer profile the business maintains. Business N
                    collects and shares Caleb's personal information tied to his browser
                    identifier for cross-context behavioral advertising. Upon receiving
                    the opt-out preference signal, Business N shall stop selling and
                    sharing Caleb's information linked to Caleb's browser identifier for
                    cross-context behavioral advertising, but it would not be able to
                    apply the request to opt-out of the sale/sharing to Caleb's account
                    information because the connection between Caleb's browser and
                    Caleb's account is not known to the business.

             (B) Noelle has an account with Business O, an online retailer who
                    manages consumer's privacy choices through a settings menu.
                    Noelle's privacy settings default to allowing Business O to sell and
                    share her personal information with the business's marketing
                    partners. Noelle enables an opt-out preference signal on her browser
                    and then visits Business O's website. Business O recognizes that

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 55 of 127
                    Noelle is visiting its website because she is logged into her account.
                    Upon receiving Noelle's opt-out preference signal, Business O shall
                    treat the signal as a valid request to opt-out of sale/sharing and shall
                    apply it to her device and/or browser and also to her account and any
                    offline sale or sharing of personal information. Business O may
                    inform Noelle that her opt-out preference signal differs from her
                    current privacy settings and provide her with an opportunity to
                    consent to the sale or sharing of her personal information, but it must
                    process the request to opt-out of sale/sharing unless Noelle
                    instructs otherwise. Business O must also wait at least 12 months
                    before asking Noelle to opt-in to the sale or sharing of her personal
                    information in accordance with section 7026, subsection (k). In
                    addition, Business O's notification would not allow it to fall within the
                    exception set forth in Civil Code section 1798.135, subdivision (b)(1),
                    because it would not be complying with the requirements set forth in
                    subsection (f).

             (C) Angela also has an account with Business O and has enabled an opt-
                    out preference signal on her browser while logged into her account.
                    Business O applies the opt-out preference signal as a valid request
                    to opt-out of sale/sharing not only to Angela's current browser, but
                    also to Angela's account because she is known to the business while
                    making the request. Angela later logs into her account with Business
                    O using a different device that does not have the opt-out preference
                    signal enabled. Business O shall not interpret the absence of the opt-
                    out preference signal as consent to opt-in to the sale of personal
                    information.

             (D) Ramona participates in Business P's financial incentive program
                    where she receives coupons in exchange for allowing the business to
                    pseudonymously track and share her online browsing habits with
                    marketing partners. Ramona enables an opt-out preference signal on
                    her browser and then visits Business P's website. Business P knows
                    that it is Ramona through a cookie that has been placed on her
                    browser, but also detects the opt-out preference signal. Business P
                    may ignore the opt-out preference signal and notify Ramona that her
                    opt-out preference signal conflicts with her participation in the

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 56 of 127
                    financial incentive program and ask whether she intends to withdraw
                    from the financial incentive program. If Ramona does not affirm her
                    intent to withdraw, Business P may ignore the opt-out preference
                    signal and place Ramona on a whitelist so that Business P does not
                    have to notify Ramona of the conflict again.

             (E) Ramona clears her cookies and revisits Business P's website with the
                    opt-out preference signal enabled. Business P no longer knows that
                    it is Ramona visiting its website. Business P shall honor Ramona's
                    opt-out preference signal as it pertains to her browser or device and
                    any consumer profile the business associates with that browser or
                    device.

(d) The business and the platform, technology, or mechanism that sends the opt-
      out preference signal shall not use, disclose, or retain any personal information
      collected from the consumer in connection with the sending or processing the
      request to opt-out of sale/sharing for any purpose other than sending or
      processing the opt-out preference signal.

(e) Civil Code section 1798.135, subdivisions (b)(1) and (3), provide a business the
      choice between (1) processing opt-out preference signals and providing the
      "Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information" and "Limit the Use of My
      Sensitive Personal Information" links or the Alternative Opt-out Link; or (2)
      processing opt-out preference signals in a frictionless manner in accordance
      with these regulations and not having to provide the "Do Not Sell or Share My
      Personal Information" and "Limit the Use of My Sensitive Personal Information"
      links or the Alternative Opt-out Link. They do not give the business the choice
      between posting the above-referenced links or honoring opt-out preference
      signals. Even if the business posts the above-referenced links, the business
      must still process opt-out preference signals, though it may do so in a non-
      frictionless manner. If a business processes opt-out preference signals in a
      frictionless manner in accordance with subsections (f) and (g), then it may, but
      is not required to, provide the above-referenced links.

(f) Except as allowed by these regulations, processing an opt-out preference
      signal in a frictionless manner as required by Civil Code section 1798.135,
      subdivision (b)(1), means that the business shall not:

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 57 of 127
      (1) Charge a fee or require any valuable consideration if the consumer uses
             an opt-out preference signal.

      (2) Change the consumer's experience with the product or service offered by
             the business. For example, the consumer who uses an opt-out preference
             signal shall have the same experience with regard to how the business's
             product or service functions compared to a consumer who does not use an
             opt-out preference signal.

      (3) Display a notification, pop-up, text, graphic, animation, sound, video, or
             any interstitial content in response to the opt-out preference signal.
             However, a business's display of whether the consumer visiting their
             website has opted out of the sale or sharing their personal information
             shall not be considered a violation of this regulation. The business may
             also provide a link to a privacy settings page, menu, or similar interface
             that enables the consumer to consent to the business ignoring the opt-out
             preference signal with respect to the business's sale or sharing of the
             consumer's personal information provided that it complies with
             subsections (f)(1) through - (3).

(g) A business meeting the requirements of Civil Code section 1798.135,
      subdivision (b)(1) is not required to post the "Do Not Sell or Share My Personal
      Information" link or the Alternative Opt-out Link if it meets all of the following
      additional requirements:

      (1) Processes the opt-out preference signal in a frictionless manner in
             accordance with the CCPA and these regulations.

      (2) Includes in its privacy policy the following information:

             (A) A description of the consumer's right to opt-out of the sale or sharing
                    of their personal information by the business;

             (B) A statement that the business processes opt-out preference signals
                    in a frictionless manner;

             (C) Information on how consumers can implement opt-out preference
                    signals for the business to process in frictionless manner; and

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 58 of 127
             (D) Instructions for any other method by which the consumer may submit
                    a request to opt-out of sale/sharing.

      (3) Allows the opt-out preference signal to fully effectuate the consumer's
             request to opt-out of sale/sharing. For example, if the business sells or
             shares personal information offline and needs to request from the
             consumer additional information that is not provided by the opt-out
             preference signal in order to apply the request to opt-out of sale/sharing
             to offline sales and sharing of personal information, then the business has
             not fully effectuated the consumer's request to opt-out of sale/sharing.
             Illustrative examples follow.

             (A) Business Q collects consumers' online browsing history and shares it
                    with third parties for cross-context behavioral advertising purposes.
                    Business Q also sells consumers' personal information offline to
                    marketing partners. Business Q cannot fall within the exception set
                    forth in Civil Code section 1798.135, subdivision (b)(1), because a
                    consumer's opt-out preference signal would only apply to Business
                    Q's online sharing of personal information about the consumer's
                    browser or device; the consumer's opt-out preference signal would
                    not apply to Business Q's offline selling of the consumer's
                    information because Business Q could not apply it to the offline
                    selling without additional information provided by the consumer, i.e.,
                    the logging into an account.

             (B) Business R only sells and shares personal information online for
                    cross-context behavioral advertising purposes. Business R may use
                    the exception set forth in Civil Code section 1798.135, subdivision
                    (b)(1), and not post the "Do Not Sell or Share My Personal
                    Information" link because a consumer using an opt-out preference
                    signal would fully effectuate their right to opt-out of the sale or
                    sharing of their personal information.

Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Sections 1798.120,
1798.135, 1798.140 and 1798.185, Civil Code.

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 59 of 127
§ 7026. Requests to Opt-out of Sale/Sharing.

(a) A business that sells or shares personal information shall provide two or more
      designated methods for submitting requests to opt-out of sale/sharing. A
      business shall consider the methods by which it interacts with consumers, the
      manner in which the business collects the personal information that it makes
      available to third parties, available technology, and ease of use by the
      consumer when determining which methods consumers may use to submit
      requests to opt-out of sale/sharing. At least one method offered shall reflect
      the manner in which the business primarily interacts with the consumer.
      Illustrative examples follow.

      (1) A business that collects personal information from consumers online
             shall, at a minimum, allow consumers to submit requests to opt-out of
             sale/sharing through an opt-out preference signal and at least one of the
             following methods: an interactive form accessible via the "Do Not Sell or
             Share My Personal Information" link, the Alternative Opt-out Link, or the
             business's privacy policy if the business processes an opt-out preference
             signal in a frictionless manner.

      (2) A business that interacts with consumers in person and online may
             provide an in-person method for submitting requests to opt-out of
             sale/sharing in addition to the opt-out preference signal.

      (3) Other methods for submitting requests to opt-out of the sale/sharing
             include, but are not limited to, a toll-free phone number, a designated
             email address, a form submitted in person, and a form submitted through
             the mail.

      (4) A notification or tool regarding cookies, such as a cookie banner or cookie
             controls, is not by itself an acceptable method for submitting requests to
             opt-out of sale/sharing because cookies concern the collection of
             personal information and not the sale or sharing of personal information.
             An acceptable method for submitting requests to opt-out of sale/sharing
             must address the sale and sharing of personal information.

(b) A business's methods for submitting requests to opt-out of sale/sharing shall
      be easy for consumers to execute, shall require minimal steps, and shall
      comply with section 7004.

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 60 of 127
(c) A business shall not require a consumer submitting a request to opt-out of
      sale/sharing to create an account or provide additional information beyond
      what is necessary to direct the business not to sell or share the consumer's
      personal information.

(d) A business shall not require a verifiable consumer request for a request to opt-
      out of sale/sharing. A business may ask the consumer for information
      necessary to complete the request, such as information necessary to identify
      the consumer whose information shall cease to be sold or shared by the
      business. However, to the extent that the business can comply with a request
      to opt-out of sale/sharing without additional information, it shall do so.

(e) If a business has a good-faith, reasonable, and documented belief that a
      request to opt-out of sale/sharing is fraudulent, the business may deny the
      request. The business shall inform the requestor that it will not comply with
      the request and shall provide to the requestor an explanation why it believes
      the request is fraudulent.

(f) A business shall comply with a request to opt-out of sale/sharing by:

      (1) Ceasing to sell to and/or share with third parties the consumer's personal
             information as soon as feasibly possible, but no later than 15 business
             days from the date the business receives the request. Service providers or
             contractors collecting personal information pursuant to the written
             contract with the business required by the CCPA and these regulations
             does not constitute a sale or sharing of personal information.

      (2) Notifying all third parties to whom the business has sold or shared the
             consumer's personal information, after the consumer submits the request
             to opt-out of sale/sharing and before the business complies with that
             request, that the consumer has made a request to opt-out of sale/sharing
             and directing them to comply with the consumer's request and forward
             the request to any other person to whom the third party has made the
             personal information available during that time period.

      (3) Illustrative examples follow.

             (A) Business U uses programmatic advertising technology on its website
                    that instantaneously sells and shares personal information of

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 61 of 127
                    consumers viewing its website through real-time bidding. Business U
                    can restrict the transfer of personal information instantaneously, and
                    thus, stop the sale and sharing personal information immediately.
                    Accordingly, when Maya visits Business U's website and submits a
                    request to opt-out of sale/sharing through the "Do Not Sell or Share
                    My Personal Information" link, Business U shall immediately comply
                    with Maya's request by ceasing to sell or share Maya's personal
                    information with any third parties. Business U shall not take 15
                    business days to comply with Maya's request because it is feasibly
                    possible to comply with the request sooner.

             (B) Business V is a marketing company that discloses consumers'
                    personal information to its clients via a batched upload every Friday.
                    Business V's disclosure of personal information is a sale because it
                    receives valuable consideration in exchange for the information.
                    Siobhan submits a request to opt-out of sale/sharing to Business V
                    through the mail, which Business V receives on Thursday. Business V
                    finishes processing Siobhan's request on Tuesday because it
                    requires a few days to update all internal systems and databases
                    with Siobhan's request. Accordingly, Siobhan's personal information
                    was not removed from the disclosure that occurred on the first
                    Friday after receiving her request, though it was removed from the
                    disclosure that occurred on the second Friday. Business V must
                    notify all its clients that received Siobhan's information on the first
                    Friday after Siobhan made her request to opt-out of sale/sharing and
                    direct them to comply with her request and forward the request to
                    any other person to whom they made Siobhan's personal information
                    available.

(g) A business may must provide a means by which the consumer can confirm that
      their request to opt-out of sale/sharing has been processed by the business.
      For example, the business may display on its website "Opt-Out Request
      Honored Consumer Opted Out of Sale/Sharing" in accordance with section
      7025, subsection (b)(6), and or display in the consumer's privacy settings
      through a toggle or radio button that the consumer has opted out of the
      sale/sharing of their personal information.

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 62 of 127
(h) In responding to a request to opt-out of sale/sharing, a business may present
      the consumer with the choice to opt-out of the sale or sharing of personal
      information for certain uses as long as a single option to opt-out of the sale or
      sharing of all personal information is also offered. However, doing so in
      response to an opt-out preference signal will prevent the business from using
      the exception set forth in Civil Code section 1798.135, subdivision (b)(1).

(i) A business that responds to a request to opt-out of sale/sharing by informing
      the consumer of a charge for the use of any product or service shall comply
      with Article 7 and shall provide the consumer with a Notice of Financial
      Incentive that complies with section 7016 in its response. However, doing so in
      response to an opt-out preference signal will prevent the business from using
      the exception set forth in Civil Code section 1798.135, subdivision (b)(1).

(j) A consumer may use an authorized agent to submit a request to opt-out of
      sale/sharing on the consumer's behalf if the consumer provides the authorized
      agent written permission signed by the consumer. A business may deny a
      request from an authorized agent if the agent does not provide to the business
      the consumer's signed permission demonstrating that they have been
      authorized by the consumer to act on the consumer's behalf. The requirement
      to obtain and provide written permission from the consumer does not apply to
      requests made by an opt-out preference signal.

(k) Except as allowed by these regulations, a business shall wait at least 12
      months from the date of the consumer's request before asking a consumer
      who has opted out of the sale or sharing of their personal information to
      consent to the sale or sharing of their personal information.

Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Sections 1798.120,
1798.135, 1798.140 and 1798.185, Civil Code.

§ 7027. Requests to Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information.

(a) The unauthorized use or disclosure of sensitive personal information creates a
      heightened risk of harm for the consumer. The purpose of the request to limit
      is to give consumers meaningful control over how their sensitive personal
      information is collected, used, and disclosed. It gives the consumer the ability
      to limit the business's use of sensitive personal information to that which is
      necessary to perform the services or provide the goods reasonably expected

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 63 of 127
      by an average consumer who requests those goods or services, with some
      narrowly tailored exceptions, which are set forth in subsection (m). Sensitive
      personal information that is collected or processed without the purpose of
      inferring characteristics about a consumer is not subject to requests to limit.

(b) A business that uses or discloses sensitive personal information for purposes
      other than those set forth in subsection (m) shall provide two or more
      designated methods for submitting requests to limit. A business shall consider
      the methods by which it interacts with consumers, the manner in which the
      business collects the sensitive personal information that it uses for purposes
      other than those set forth in subsection (m), available technology, and ease of
      use by the consumer when determining which methods consumers may use to
      submit requests to limit. At least one method offered shall reflect the manner
      in which the business primarily interacts with the consumer. Illustrative
      examples follow.

      (1) A business that collects sensitive personal information from consumers
             online shall, at a minimum, allow consumers to submit requests to limit
             through an interactive form accessible via the "Limit the Use of My
             Sensitive Personal Information" link or the Alternative Opt-out Link.

      (2) A business that interacts with consumers in person and online may
             provide an in-person method for submitting requests to limit in addition to
             the online form.

      (3) Other methods for submitting requests to limit include, but are not limited
             to, a toll-free phone number, a designated email address, a form
             submitted in person, and a form submitted through the mail.

      (4) A notification or tool regarding cookies, such as a cookie banner or cookie
             controls, is not by itself an acceptable method for submitting requests to
             limit because cookies concern the collection of personal information and
             not necessarily the use and disclosure of sensitive personal information.
             An acceptable method for submitting requests to limit must address the
             specific right to limit.

(c) A business's methods for submitting requests to limit shall be easy for
      consumers to execute, shall require minimal steps, and shall comply with
      section 7004.

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 64 of 127
(d) A business shall not require a consumer submitting a request to limit to create
      an account or provide additional information beyond what is necessary to
      direct the business to limit the use or disclosure of the consumer's sensitive
      personal information.

(e) A business shall not require a verifiable consumer request for a request to
      limit. A business may ask the consumer for information necessary to complete
      the request, such as information necessary to identify the consumer to whom
      the request should be appliesd. However, to the extent that the business can
      comply with a request to limit without additional information, it shall do so.

(f) If a business has a good-faith, reasonable, and documented belief that a
      request to limit is fraudulent, the business may deny the request. The business
      shall inform the requestor that it will not comply with the request and shall
      provide to the requestor an explanation why it believes the request is
      fraudulent.

(g) A business shall comply with a request to limit by:

      (1) Ceasing to use and disclose the consumer's sensitive personal
             information for purposes other than those set forth in subsection (m) as
             soon as feasibly possible, but no later than 15 business days from the date
             the business receives the request.

      (2) Notifying all the business's service providers or contractors that use or
             disclose the consumer's sensitive personal information for purposes other
             than those set forth in subsection (m) that the consumer has made a
             request to limit and instructing them to comply with the consumer's
             request to limit within the same time frame.

      (3) Notifying all third parties to whom the business has disclosed or made
             available the consumer's sensitive personal information for purposes
             other than those set forth in subsection (m), after the consumer submitted
             their request and before the business complies with that request, that the
             consumer has made a request to limit and direct them 1) to comply with
             the consumer's request and 2) to forward the request to any other person
             with whom the third party has disclosed or made available shared the
             sensitive personal information during that time period.

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 65 of 127
(h) A business may must provide a means by which the consumer can confirm that
      their request to limit has been processed by the business. For example, the
      business may display through a toggle or radio button that the consumer has
      limited the business's use and disclosure of their sensitive personal
      information.

(i) In responding to a request to limit, a business may present the consumer with
      the choice to allow specific uses for the sensitive personal information as long
      as a single option to limit the use of the personal information is also offered.

(j) A consumer may use an authorized agent to submit a request to limit on the
      consumer's behalf if the consumer provides the authorized agent written
      permission signed by the consumer. A business may deny a request from an
      authorized agent if the agent does not provide to the business the consumer's
      signed permission demonstrating that they have been authorized by the
      consumer to act on the consumer's behalf.

(k) A business that responds to a request to limit by informing the consumer of a
      charge for the use of any product or service shall comply with Article 7 and
      shall provide the consumer with a Notice of Financial Incentive that complies
      with section 7016 in its response.

(l) Except as allowed by these regulations, a business shall wait at least 12
      months from the date the consumer's request to limit is received before asking
      a consumer who has exercised their right to limit to consent to the use or
      disclosure of their sensitive personal information for purposes other than
      those set forth in subsection (m).

(m) The purposes identified in Civil Code section 1798.121, subdivision (a), for which
      a business may use or disclose sensitive personal information without being
      required to offer consumers a right to limit are as follows. A business that only
      uses or discloses sensitive personal information for these purposes, provided
      that the use or disclosure is reasonably necessary and proportionate for those
      purposes, is not required to post a Notice of Right to Limit or provide a method
      for submitting a request to limit.

      (1) To perform the services or provide the goods reasonably expected by an
             average consumer who requests those goods or services. For example, a
             consumer's precise geolocation may be used by a mobile application that

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 66 of 127
             is providing the consumer with directions on how to get to a specific
             location. A consumer's precise geolocation may not, however, be used by
             a gaming application where the average consumer would not expect the
             application to need this piece of sensitive personal information.

      (2) To prevent, detect, and investigate security incidents that compromise
             the availability, authenticity, integrity, or confidentiality of stored or
             transmitted personal information. Illustrative examples follow.

             (A) For example, a A business may disclose a consumer's log-in
                    information to a data security company that it has hired to
                    investigate and remediate a data breach that involved that
                    consumer's account.

             (B) A business may scan employees' outgoing emails to prevent
                    employees from leaking sensitive personal information outside of the
                    business. However, scanning the emails for other purposes would not
                    fall within this exception to the consumer's right to limit.

      (3) To resist malicious, deceptive, fraudulent, or illegal actions directed at the
             business or at consumers, or and to prosecute those responsible for those
             actions. Illustrative examples follow.

             (A) For example, a A business may use information about a consumer's
                    ethnicity and/or the contents of email and text messages to
                    investigate claims of racial discrimination or hate speech.

             (B) A business may collect and use the biometric information of its
                    employees to authenticate them for access into secured areas of
                    their business and to prevent access by unauthorized persons.
                    However, the business would not be able to retain the biometric
                    information indefinitely or use it for unrelated purposes, such as the
                    development of commercial products, under this exception to the
                    consumer's right to limit.

      (4) To ensure the physical safety of natural persons. For example, a business
             may disclose a consumer's geolocation information to law enforcement to
             investigate an alleged kidnapping.

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 67 of 127
      (5) For short-term, transient use, including, but not limited to,
             nonpersonalized advertising shown as part of a consumer's current
             interaction with the business, provided that the personal information is
             not disclosed to another third party and is not used to build a profile about
             the consumer or otherwise alter the consumer's experience outside the
             current interaction with the business. For example, a business that sells
             religious books can use information about its customers' interest in its
             religious content to serve contextual advertising for other kinds of
             religious merchandise within its store or on its website, so long as the
             business does not use sensitive personal information to create a profile
             about an individual consumer or disclose personal information that
             reveals consumers' religious beliefs to third parties.

      (6) To perform services on behalf of the business. For example, a business
             may use information for maintaining or servicing accounts, providing
             customer service, processing or fulfilling orders and transactions,
             verifying customer information, processing payments, providing financing,
             providing analytic services, providing storage, or providing similar services
             on behalf of the business.

      (7) To verify or maintain the quality or safety of a product, service, or device
             that is owned, manufactured, manufactured for, or controlled by the
             business, and to improve, upgrade, or enhance the service or device that is
             owned, manufactured by, manufactured for, or controlled by the business.
             For example, a car rental business may use a consumer's driver's license
             for the purpose of testing that its internal text recognition software
             accurately captures license information used in car rental transactions.

      (8) To collect or process sensitive personal information where the collection
             or processing is not for the purpose of inferring characteristics about a
             consumer. For example, a business that includes a search box on their
             website by which consumers can search for articles related to their health
             condition may use the information provided by the consumer for the
             purpose of providing the search feature without inferring characteristics
             about the consumer.

Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Sections 1798.121,
1798.135, 1798.140 and 1798.185, Civil Code.

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 68 of 127
§ 7028. Requests to Opt-in After Opting-out of the Sale or Sharing of Personal
Information or Limiting the Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information.

(a) Requests to opt-in to sale or sharing of personal information and requests to
      opt-in to the use and disclosure of sensitive personal information shall use a
      two-step opt-in process whereby the consumer shall first, clearly request to
      opt-in and then second, separately confirm their choice to opt-in.

(b) If a consumer who has opted-out of the sale or sharing of their personal
      information initiates a transaction or attempts to use a product or service that
      requires the sale or sharing of their personal information, the business may
      inform the consumer that the transaction, product, or service requires the sale
      or sharing of their personal information and provide instructions on how the
      consumer can provide consent to opt-in to the sale or sharing of their personal
      information. The business shall comply with section 7004 when obtaining the
      consumer's consent.

(c) If a consumer who has exercised their right to limit initiates a transaction or
      attempts to use a product or service that requires the use or disclosure of
      sensitive personal information for purposes other than those set forth in
      section 7027, subsection (m), the business may inform the consumer that the
      transaction, product, or service requires the use or disclosure of sensitive
      personal information for additional purposes and provide instructions on how
      the consumer can provide consent for the business to use or disclose sensitive
      personal information for those additional purposes. The business shall comply
      with section 7004 when obtaining the consumer's consent.

Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Sections 1798.120,
1798.121, 1798.135 and 1798.185, Civil Code.

     ARTICLE 4. SERVICE PROVIDERS, CONTRACTORS, AND THIRD PARTIES

§ 7050. Service Providers and Contractors.

(a) A service provider or contractor shall not retain, use, or disclose personal
      information collected pursuant to its written contract with the business
      except: for the following purposes, provided that the retention, use, or
      disclosure is reasonably necessary and proportionate for those purposes.

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 69 of 127
      (1) For the specific business purpose(s) set forth in the written contract
             between the business and the service provider or contractor that is
             required by the CCPA and these regulations.

      (2) To retain and employ another service provider or contractor as a
             subcontractor, where the subcontractor meets the requirements for a
             service provider or contractor under the CCPA and these regulations.

      (3) For internal use by the service provider or contractor to build or improve
             the quality of the services it is providing to the business, even if this
             business purpose is not specified in the written contract required by the
             CCPA and these regulations, provided that the service provider or
             contractor does not use the personal information to perform services on
             behalf of another person. Illustrative examples follow.

             (A) An email marketing service provider can send emails on a business's
                    behalf using the business's customer email list. The service provider
                    could analyze those customers' interactions with the marketing
                    emails to improve its services and offer those improved services to
                    everyone. But the service provider cannot use the original email list
                    to send marketing emails on behalf of another business.

             (B) A shipping service provider that delivers businesses' products to
                    their customers may use the addresses received from their business
                    clients and their experience delivering to those addresses to identify
                    faulty or incomplete addresses, and thus, improve their delivery
                    services. However, the shipping service provider cannot compile the
                    addresses received from one business to send advertisements on
                    behalf of another business, or compile addresses received from
                    businesses to sell to data brokers.

      (4) To prevent, detect, or investigate data security incidents or protect
             against malicious, deceptive, fraudulent or illegal activity, even if this
             business purpose is not specified in the written contract required by the
             CCPA and these regulations. For example, a service provider or contractor
             may use IP addresses that have been associated with malicious activity
             (e.g., distributed denial of service attacks) to detect and prevent such
             malicious activity.

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 70 of 127
      (5) For the purposes enumerated in Civil Code section 1798.145, subdivisions
             (a)(1) through (a)(7).

(b) A service provider or contractor cannot contract with a business to provide
      cross-context behavioral advertising. Pursuant to Civil Code section 1798.140,
      subdivision (e)(6), a service provider or contractor may contract with a business
      to provide advertising and marketing services, but the service provider or
      contractor shall not combine the personal information of consumers who have
      opted-out of the sale/sharing that the service provider or contractor receives
      from, or on behalf of, the business with personal information that the service
      provider or contractor receives from, or on behalf of, another person or
      collects from its own interaction with consumers. A person who contracts with
      a business to provide cross-context behavioral advertising is a third party and
      not a service provider or contractor with respect to cross-context behavioral
      advertising services. Illustrative examples follow.

      (1) Business S, a clothing company, hires a social media company as a service
             provider for the purpose of providing Business S's advertisements on the
             social media company's platform. The social media company can serve
             Business S by providing non-personalized advertising services on its
             platform based on aggregated or demographic information (e.g.,
             advertisements to women, 18-30 years old, that live in Los Angeles).
             However, it cannot use a list of customer email addresses provided by
             Business S to identify users on the social media company's platform to
             serve advertisements to them.

      (2) Business T, a company that sells cookware, hires an advertising company
             as a service provider for the purpose of advertising its services. The
             advertising agency can serve Business T by providing contextual
             advertising services, such as placing advertisements for Business T's
             products on websites that post recipes and other cooking tips.

(c) If a service provider or contractor receives a request made pursuant to the
      CCPA directly from the consumer, the service provider or contractor shall
      either act on behalf of the business in accordance with the business's
      instructions for responding to the request or inform the consumer that the
      request cannot be acted upon because the request has been sent to a service
      provider or contractor.

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 71 of 127
(d) A service provider or contractor that is a business shall comply with the CCPA
      and these regulations with regard to any personal information that it collects,
      maintains, or sells outside of its role as a service provider or contractor.

(e) A person who does not have a contract that complies with section 7051,
      subsection (a), is not a service provider or a contractor under the CCPA. For
      example, a business's disclosure of personal information to a person who does
      not have a contract that complies with section 7051, subsection (a), may be
      considered a sale or sharing of personal information for which the business
      must provide the consumer with the right to opt-out of sale/sharing.

(f) A service provider or a contractor shall comply with the terms of the contract
      required by the CCPA and these regulations.

(g) Whether an entity that provides services to a nonbusiness must comply with a
      consumer's CCPA request depends upon whether the entity is a "business," as
      defined by Civil Code section 1798.140, subdivision (d).

(h) A service provider or contractor shall, with respect to personal information
      that they collected pursuant to their written contract with the business,
      cooperate with the business:

      (1) In the business's completion of its cybersecurity audit pursuant to Article
             9, including making available to the business's auditor all relevant
             information that the auditor requests to complete the business's
             cybersecurity audit and that is in the service provider's or contractor's
             possession, custody, or control, and not misrepresenting any fact that the
             auditor deems relevant to the business's cybersecurity audit; and

      (2) In conducting the business's risk assessment pursuant to Article 10,
             including making available to the business all facts necessary to conduct
             the risk assessment that are in the service provider's or contractor's
             possession, custody, or control, and not misrepresenting any fact
             necessary to conduct the risk assessment.

Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Sections 1798.100,
1798.105, 1798.106, 1798.110, 1798.115, 1798.120, 1798.121, 1798.130, 1798.135,
1798.140 and 1798.185, Civil Code.

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 72 of 127
§ 7051. Contract Requirements for Service Providers and Contractors.

(a) The contract required by the CCPA for service providers and contractors shall:

      (1) Prohibit the service provider or contractor from selling or sharing personal
             information it collects pursuant to the written contract with the business.

      (2) Identify the specific business purpose(s) for which the service provider or
             contractor is processing personal information pursuant to the written
             contract with the business, and specify that the business is disclosing the
             personal information to the service provider or contractor only for the
             limited and specified business purpose(s) set forth within the contract.
             The business purpose(s) shall not be described in generic terms, such as
             referencing the entire contract generally. The description shall be
             specific.

      (3) Prohibit the service provider or contractor from retaining, using, or
             disclosing the personal information that it collected pursuant to the
             written contract with the business for any purpose other than the
             business purpose(s) specified in the contract or as otherwise permitted by
             the CCPA and these regulations.

      (4) Prohibit the service provider or contractor from retaining, using, or
             disclosing the personal information that it collected pursuant to the
             written contract with the business for any commercial purpose other than
             the business purpose(s) specified in the contract, unless expressly
             permitted by the CCPA or these regulations.

      (5) Prohibit the service provider or contractor from retaining, using, or
             disclosing the personal information that it collected pursuant to the
             written contract with the business outside the direct business relationship
             between the service provider or contractor and the business, unless
             expressly permitted by the CCPA or these regulations. For example, a
             service provider or contractor shall be prohibited from combining or
             updating personal information that it collected pursuant to the written
             contract with the business with personal information that it received from
             another source or collected from its own interaction with the consumer,
             unless expressly permitted by the CCPA or these regulations.

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 73 of 127
      (5) (6) Require the service provider or contractor to comply with all applicable
             sections of the CCPA and these regulations, including--with respect to
             the personal information that it collected pursuant to the written contract
             with the business--providing the same level of privacy protection as
             required of businesses by the CCPA and these regulations. For example,
             the contract may require the service provider or contractor to cooperate
             with the business in responding to and complying with consumers'
             requests made pursuant to the CCPA, to assist the business in completing
             the business's cybersecurity audit pursuant to Article 9, to assist the
             business in conducting the business's risk assessment pursuant to Article
             10, to assist the business in complying with the business's ADMT
             requirements pursuant to Article 11, and to implement reasonable security
             procedures and practices appropriate to the nature of the personal
             information to protect the personal information from unauthorized or
             illegal access, destruction, use, modification, or disclosure in accordance
             with Civil Code section 1798.81.5.

      (6) (7) Grant the business the right to take reasonable and appropriate steps
             to ensure that the service provider or contractor uses the personal
             information that it collected pursuant to the written contract with the
             business in a manner consistent with the business's obligations under the
             CCPA and these regulations. Reasonable and appropriate steps may
             include ongoing manual reviews and automated scans of the service
             provider's system and regular internal or third-party assessments, audits,
             or other technical and operational testing at least once every 12 months.

      (7) (8) Require the service provider or contractor to notify the business after
             it makes a determination that it can no longer meet its obligations under
             the CCPA and these regulations.

      (8) (9) Grant the business the right, upon notice, to take reasonable and
             appropriate steps to stop and remediate the service provider or
             contractor's unauthorized use of personal information. For example, the
             business may require the service provider or contractor to provide
             documentation that verifies that they no longer retain or use the personal
             information of consumers that have made a valid request to delete with
             the business.

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 74 of 127
      (9) (10) Require the service provider or contractor to enable the business to
             comply with consumer requests made pursuant to the CCPA or require
             the business to inform the service provider or contractor of any consumer
             request made pursuant to the CCPA that they must comply with and
             provide the information necessary for the service provider or contractor to
             comply with the request.

(b) A service provider or contractor that subcontracts with another person in
      providing services to the business for whom it is a service provider or
      contractor shall have a contract with the subcontractor that complies with the
      CCPA and these regulations, including subsection (a).

(c) Whether a business conducts due diligence of its service providers and
      contractors factors into whether the business has reason to believe that a
      service provider or contractor is using personal information in violation of the
      CCPA and these regulations. For example, depending on the circumstances, a
      business that never enforces the terms of the contract nor exercises its rights
      to audit or test the service provider's or contractor's systems might not be able
      to rely on the defense that it did not have reason to believe that the service
      provider or contractor intends to use the personal information in violation of
      the CCPA and these regulations at the time the business disclosed the
      personal information to the service provider or contractor.

Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Sections 1798.100,
1798.105, 1798.106, 1798.110, 1798.115, 1798.120, 1798.121, 1798.130, 1798.135,
1798.140 and 1798.185, Civil Code.

§ 7053. Contract Requirements for Third Parties.

(a) A business that sells or shares a consumer's personal information with a third
      party shall enter into an agreement with the third party that:

      (1) Identifies the limited and specified purpose(s) for which the personal
             information is made available to the third party. The purpose(s) shall not
             be described in generic terms, such as referencing the entire contract
             generally. The description shall be specific.

      (2) Specifies that the business is making the personal information available
             to the third party only for the limited and specified purpose(s) set forth

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 75 of 127
             within the contract and requires the third party to use it only for that
             limited and specified purpose(s).

      (3) Requires the third party to comply with all applicable sections of the
             CCPA and these regulations, including--with respect to the personal
             information that the business makes available to the third party--
             providing the same level of privacy protection as required of businesses
             by the CCPA and these regulations. For example, the contract may require
             the third party to comply with a consumer's request to opt-out of
             sale/sharing forwarded to it by a first-party business and to implement
             reasonable security procedures and practices appropriate to the nature of
             the personal information to protect the personal information from
             unauthorized or illegal access, destruction, use, modification, or
             disclosure in accordance with Civil Code section 1798.81.5.

      (4) Grants the business the right--with respect to the personal information
             that the business makes available to the third party--to take reasonable
             and appropriate steps to ensure that the third party uses it in a manner
             consistent with the business's obligations under the CCPA and these
             regulations. For example, the business may require the third party to
             attest that it treats the personal information the business made available
             to it in the same manner that the business is obligated to treat it under the
             CCPA and these regulations.

      (5) Grants the business the right, upon notice, to take reasonable and
             appropriate steps to stop and remediate unauthorized use of personal
             information made available to the third party. For example, the business
             may require the third party to provide documentation that verifies that it
             no longer retains or uses the personal information of consumers who have
             had their requests to opt-out of sale/sharing forwarded to it by the first
             party business.

      (6) Requires the third party to notify the business after it makes a
             determination that it can no longer meet its obligations under the CCPA
             and these regulations.

(b) Whether a business conducts due diligence of the third party factors into
      whether the business has reason to believe that the third party is using

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 76 of 127
      personal information in violation of the CCPA and these regulations. For
      example, depending on the circumstances, a business that never enforces the
      terms of the contract might not be able to rely on the defense that it did not
      have reason to believe that the third party intends to use the personal
      information in violation of the CCPA and these regulations at the time the
      business disclosed the personal information to the third party.

Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Sections 1798.100,
1798.105, 1798.106, 1798.110, 1798.115, 1798.120, 1798.121, 1798.130, 1798.135,
1798.140 and 1798.185, Civil Code.

                            ARTICLE 5. VERIFICATION OF REQUESTS

§ 7060. General Rules Regarding Verification.

(a) A business shall establish, document, and comply with a reasonable method
      for verifying that the person making a request to delete, request to correct, or
      request to know, or request to access ADMT is the consumer about whom the
      business has collected information.

(b) A business shall not require a consumer to verify their identity to make a
      request to opt-out of sale/sharing, or to make a request to limit, or to make a
      request to opt-out of ADMT. A business may ask the consumer for information
      necessary to complete the request; however, it shall not be burdensome on the
      consumer. For example, a business may ask the consumer for their name, but it
      shall not require the consumer to take a picture of themselves with their
      driver's license.

(c) In determining the method by which the business will verify the consumer's
      identity, the business shall:

      (1) Whenever feasible, mMatch the identifying information provided by the
             consumer to the personal information of the consumer already maintained
             by the business before requesting additional information, or use a third-
             party identity verification service that complies with this section.

      (2) Avoid collecting the types of personal information identified in Civil Code
             section 1798.81.5, subdivision (d), unless necessary for the purpose of
             verifying the consumer.

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 77 of 127
      (3) Consider the following factors:

             (A) The type, sensitivity, and value of the personal information collected
                    and maintained about the consumer. Sensitive personal information
                    shall warrant a more stringent verification process.

             (B) The risk of harm to the consumer posed by any unauthorized
                    deletion, correction, or access. A greater risk of harm to the
                    consumer by unauthorized deletion, correction, or access shall
                    warrant a more stringent verification process.

             (C) The likelihood that fraudulent or malicious actors would seek the
                    personal information. The higher the likelihood, the more stringent
                    the verification process shall be.

             (D) Whether the personal information to be provided by the consumer to
                    verify their identity is sufficiently robust to protect against
                    fraudulent requests or being spoofed or fabricated.

             (E) The manner in which the business interacts with the consumer.

             (F) Available technology for verification.

(d) A business shall generally avoid requesting additional information from the
      consumer for purposes of verification. If, however, the business cannot verify
      the identity of the consumer from the information already maintained by the
      business, the business may request additional information from the consumer,
      which shall only be used for the purposes of verifying the identity of the
      consumer seeking to exercise their rights under the CCPA, security, or fraud-
      prevention. The business shall delete any new personal information collected
      for the purposes of verification as soon as practical after processing the
      consumer's request, except as required to comply with section 7101.

(e) A business shall not require the consumer or the consumer's authorized agent
      to pay a fee for the verification of their request to delete, request to correct, or
      request to know. For example, a business may must not require a consumer to
      provide a notarized affidavit to verify their identity unless the business pays for
      or compensates the consumer for the cost of notarization. A business that
      compensates the consumer for the cost of the notarization shall provide the

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 78 of 127
      consumer with instructions on how they will be reimbursed prior to the
      consumer's submission of the notarized affidavit.

(f) A business shall implement reasonable security measures to detect fraudulent
      identity-verification activity and prevent the unauthorized deletion, correction,
      or access of to a consumer's personal information, or access to information
      about a business's use of ADMT with respect to a consumer.

(g) If a business maintains consumer information that is deidentified, a business is
      not obligated to provide or delete this information in response to a consumer
      request or to re-identify individual data to verify a consumer request.

(h) For requests to correct, the business must shall make an effort to verify the
      consumer based on personal information that is not the subject of the request
      to correct. For example, if the consumer is contending that the business has
      the wrong address for the consumer, the business shall not use address as a
      means of verifying the consumer's identity.

Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Sections 1798.100,
1798.105, 1798.106, 1798.110, 1798.115, 1798.120, 1798.121, 1798.130, 1798.135,
1798.140 and 1798.185, Civil Code.

§ 7062. Verification for Non-Accountholders.

(a) If a consumer does not have or cannot access a password-protected account
      with a business, the business shall comply with this section, in addition to
      section 7060.

(b) A business's compliance with a request to know categories of personal
      information requires that the business verify the identity of the consumer
      making the request to a reasonable degree of certainty. A reasonable degree
      of certainty may include matching at least two data points provided by the
      consumer with data points maintained by the business that it has determined
      to be reliable for the purpose of verifying the consumer.

(c) A business's compliance with a request to know specific pieces of personal
      information, or a request to access ADMT, requires that the business verify the
      identity of the consumer making the request to a reasonably high degree of
      certainty. A reasonably high degree of certainty may include matching at least
      three pieces of personal information provided by the consumer with personal

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 79 of 127
      information maintained by the business that it has determined to be reliable
      for the purpose of verifying the consumer together with a signed declaration
      under penalty of perjury that the requestor is the consumer whose personal
      information is the subject of the request. If a business uses this method for
      verification, the business shall maintain all signed declarations as part of its
      record-keeping obligations.

(d) A business's compliance with a request to delete or a request to correct may
      require that the business verify the identity of the consumer to a reasonable or
      reasonably high degree of certainty depending on the sensitivity of the
      personal information and the risk of harm to the consumer posed by
      unauthorized deletion or correction. For example, the deletion of family
      photographs or the correction of contact information may require a reasonably
      high degree of certainty, while the deletion of browsing history or correction of
      marital status may require only a reasonable degree of certainty. A business
      shall act in good faith when determining the appropriate standard to apply
      when verifying the consumer in accordance with these regulations.

(e) Illustrative examples follow:

      (1) Example 1: If a business maintains personal information in a manner
             associated with a named actual person, the business may verify the
             consumer by requiring the consumer to provide evidence that matches
             the personal information maintained by the business. For example, if a
             retailer maintains a record of purchases made by a consumer, the
             business may require the consumer to identify items that they recently
             purchased from the store or the dollar amount of their most recent
             purchase to verify their identity to a reasonable degree of certainty.

      (2) Example 2: If a business maintains personal information in a manner that is
             not associated with a named actual person, the business may verify the
             consumer by requiring the consumer to demonstrate that they are the
             sole consumer associated with the personal information. For example, a
             business may have a mobile application that collects personal information
             about the consumer but does not require an account. The business may
             determine whether, based on the facts and considering the factors set
             forth in section 7060, subsection (b)(c)(3), it may reasonably verify a
             consumer by asking them to provide information that only the person who

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 80 of 127
             used the mobile application may know or by requiring the consumer to
             respond to a notification sent to their device.

(f) A business shall deny a request to know specific pieces of personal
      information, or a request to access ADMT, if it cannot verify the identity of the
      requestor pursuant to these regulations.

(g) If there is no reasonable method by which a business can verify the identity of
      the consumer to the degree of certainty required by this section, the business
      shall state so in response to any request and explain why it has no reasonable
      method by which it can verify the identity of the requestor. If the business has
      no reasonable method by which it can verify any consumer, the business shall
      explain why it has no reasonable verification method in its privacy policy. The
      business shall evaluate and document whether a reasonable method can be
      established at least once every 12 months, in connection with the requirement
      to update the privacy policy set forth in Civil Code section 1798.130,
      subdivision (a)(5).

Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Sections 1798.100,
1798.105, 1798.106, 1798.110, 1798.115, 1798.130 and 1798.185, Civil Code.

§ 7063. Authorized Agents.

(a) When a consumer uses an authorized agent to submit a request to delete,
      request to correct, or a request to know, a business may require the authorized
      agent to provide proof that the consumer gave the agent signed permission to
      submit the request. The business may also require the consumer to do either of
      the following:

      (1) Verify their own identity directly with the business.

      (2) Directly confirm with the business that they provided the authorized
             agent permission to submit the request.

         However, businesses shall not require the consumer to resubmit their
         request in their individual capacity.

(b) Subsection (a) does not apply when a consumer has provided the authorized
      agent with power of attorney pursuant to Probate Code sections 4121 to 4130.

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 81 of 127
      A business shall not require power of attorney in order for a consumer to use
      an authorized agent to act on their behalf.

(c) An authorized agent shall implement and maintain reasonable security
      procedures and practices to protect the consumer's information.

(d) An authorized agent shall not use a consumer's personal information, or any
      information collected from or about the consumer, for any purposes other than
      to fulfill the consumer's requests, verification, or fraud prevention.

Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Sections 1798.100,
1798.105, 1798.106, 1798.110, 1798.115, 1798.130 and 1798.185, Civil Code.

 ARTICLE 6. SPECIAL RULES REGARDING CONSUMERS UNDER LESS THAN 16
                                               YEARS OF AGE

§ 7070. Consumers Less Than 13 Years of Age.

(a) Process for Opting-In to Sale or Sharing of Personal Information

       (1) A business that has actual knowledge that it sells or shares the personal
             information of a consumer less than the age of 13 shall establish,
             document, and comply with a reasonable method for determining that the
             person consenting to the sale or sharing of the personal information about
             the child is the parent or guardian of that child. This consent to the sale or
             sharing of personal information is in addition to any verifiable parental
             consent required under COPPA.

      (2) Methods that are reasonably calculated to ensure that the person
             providing consent is the child's parent or guardian include, but are not
             limited to:

             (A) Providing a consent form to be signed by the parent or guardian
                    under penalty of perjury and returned to the business by postal mail,
                    facsimile, or electronic scan;

             (B) Requiring a parent or guardian, in connection with a monetary
                    transaction, to use a credit card, debit card, or other online payment
                    system that provides notification of each discrete transaction to the
                    primary account holder;

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 82 of 127
             (C) Having a parent or guardian call a toll-free telephone number staffed
                    by trained personnel;

             (D) Having a parent or guardian connect to trained personnel via video-
                    conference;

             (E) Having a parent or guardian communicate in person with trained
                    personnel; and

             (F) Verifying a parent or guardian's identity by checking a form of
                    government-issued identification against databases of such
                    information, as long as the parent or guardian's identification is
                    deleted by the business from its records promptly after such
                    verification is complete.

(b) When a business receives consent to the sale or sharing of personal
      information pursuant to subsection (a), the business shall inform the parent or
      guardian of the right to opt-out of sale/sharing and of the process for doing so
      on behalf of their child pursuant to section 7026, subsections (a) - (f).

(c) A business shall establish, document, and comply with a reasonable method, in
      accordance with the methods set forth in subsection (a)(2), for determining
      that a person submitting a request to delete, request to correct, or request to
      know the personal information of a child under the age of 13 is the parent or
      guardian of that child.

Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Sections 1798.120,
1798.135 and 1798.185, Civil Code.

                                 ARTICLE 7. NON-DISCRIMINATION

§ 7080. Discriminatory Practices.

(a) A price or service difference is discriminatory, and therefore prohibited by Civil
      Code section 1798.125, if the business treats a consumer differently because
      the consumer exercised a right conferred by the CCPA or these regulations.

(b) A business may offer a price or service difference that is non-discriminatory. A
      price or service difference is non-discriminatory if it is reasonably related to
      the value of the consumer's data. If a business is unable to calculate a good-

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 83 of 127
      faith estimate of the value of the consumer's data or cannot show that the
      price or service difference is reasonably related to the value of the consumer's
      data, that business shall not offer the price or service difference.

(c) A business's denial of a consumer's request to delete, request to correct,
      request to know, request to access ADMT, or request to opt-out of
      sale/sharing, or request to opt-out of ADMT for reasons permitted by the
      CCPA or these regulations shall not be considered discriminatory.

(d) Illustrative examples follow:

      (1) Example 1: A music streaming business offers a free service as well as a
             premium service that costs $5 per month. If only the consumers who pay
             for the music streaming service are allowed to opt-out of the sale or
             sharing of their personal information, then the practice is discriminatory,
             unless the $5-per-month payment is reasonably related to the value of
             the consumer's data to the business.

      (2) Example 2: A clothing business offers a loyalty program whereby
             customers receive a $5-off coupon by email after spending $100 with the
             business. A consumer submits a request to delete all personal information
             the business has collected about them but also informs the business that
             they want to continue to participate in the loyalty program. The business
             may deny their request to delete with regard to their email address and
             the amount the consumer has spent with the business because that
             information is necessary for the business to provide the loyalty program
             requested by the consumer and is reasonably anticipated within the
             context of the business's ongoing relationship with them pursuant to Civil
             Code section 1798.105, subdivision (d)(1).

      (3) Example 3: A grocery store offers a loyalty program whereby consumers
             receive coupons and special discounts when they provide their phone
             numbers. A consumer submits a request to opt-out of the sale/sharing of
             their personal information. The retailer complies with their request but no
             longer allows the consumer to participate in the loyalty program. This
             practice is discriminatory unless the grocery store can demonstrate that
             the value of the coupons and special discounts are reasonably related to
             the value of the consumer's data to the business.

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 84 of 127
      (4) Example 4: An online bookseller collects information about consumers,
             including their email addresses. It offers coupons to consumers through
             browser pop-up windows while the consumer uses the bookseller's
             website. A consumer submits a request to delete all personal information
             that the bookseller has collected about them, including their email
             address and their browsing and purchasing history. The bookseller
             complies with the request but stops providing the periodic coupons to the
             consumer. The bookseller's failure to provide coupons is discriminatory
             unless the value of the coupons is reasonably related to the value
             provided to the business by the consumer's data. The bookseller may not
             deny the consumer's request to delete with regard to the email address
             because the email address is not necessary to provide the coupons or
             reasonably aligned with the expectations of the consumer based on the
             consumer's relationship with the business.

(e) A business shall notify consumers of any financial incentive or price or service
      difference subject to Civil Code section 1798.125 that it offers in accordance
      with section 7016.

(f) A business's charging of a reasonable fee pursuant to Civil Code section
      1798.145, subdivision (h)(3), shall not be considered a financial incentive
      subject to these regulations.

(g) A price or service difference that is the direct result of compliance with a state
      or federal law shall not be considered discriminatory.

Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Sections 1798.125,
1798.130 and 1798.185, Civil Code.

                        ARTICLE 8. TRAINING AND RECORD-KEEPING

§ 7102. Requirements for Businesses Collecting Large Amounts of Personal
Information.

(a) A business that knows or reasonably should know that it, alone or in
      combination, buys, receives for the business's commercial purposes, sells,
      shares, or otherwise makes available for commercial purposes the personal
      information of 10,000,000 or more consumers in a calendar year shall:

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 85 of 127
      (1) Compile the following metrics for the previous calendar year:

             (A) The number of requests to delete that the business received,
                    complied with in whole or in part, and denied;

             (B) The number of requests to correct that the business received,
                    complied with in whole or in part, and denied;

             (C) The number of requests to know that the business received, complied
                    with in whole or in part, and denied;

             (D) The number of requests to access ADMT that the business received,
                    complied with in whole or in part, and denied;

             (E) The number of requests to opt-out of sale/sharing that the business
                    received, complied with in whole or in part, and denied;

             (F) (E) The number of requests to limit that the business received,
                    complied with in whole or in part, and denied; and

             (G) The number of requests to opt-out of ADMT that the business
                    received, complied with in whole or in part, and denied; and

             (H) (F) The median or mean number of days within which the business
                    substantively responded to requests to delete, requests to correct,
                    requests to know, requests to opt-out of sale/sharing, and requests
                    to limit.

      (2) Disclose, by July 1 of every calendar year, the information compiled in
             subsection (a)(1) within their privacy policy or posted on their website and
             accessible from a link included in their privacy policy. In its disclosure, a
             business may choose to disclose the number of requests that it denied in
             whole or in part because the request was not verifiable, was not made by
             a consumer, called for information exempt from disclosure, or was denied
             on other grounds.

(b) A business may choose to compile and disclose the information required by
      subsection (a)(1) for requests received from all individuals, rather than
      requests received from consumers. The business shall state whether it has
      done so in its disclosure and shall, upon request, compile and provide to the

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 86 of 127
      Attorney General the information required by subsection (a)(1) for requests
      received from consumers.
Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Sections 1798.105,
1798.106, 1798.110, 1798.115, 1798.120, 1798.121, 1798.130, 1798.135 and 1798.185, Civil
Code.

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 87 of 127
                               ARTICLE 9. CYBERSECURITY AUDITS

§ 7120. Requirement to Complete a Cybersecurity Audit.

(a) Every business whose processing of consumers' personal information presents
      significant risk to consumers' security as set forth in subsection (b) must
      complete a cybersecurity audit.

(b) A business's processing of consumers' personal information presents
      significant risk to consumers' security if any of the following is true:

      (1) The business meets the threshold set forth in Civil Code section 1798.140,
             subdivision (d)(1)(C), in the preceding calendar year; or

      (2) The business meets the threshold set forth in Civil Code section 1798.140,
             subdivision (d)(1)(A); and

             (A) Processed the personal information of 250,000 or more consumers
                    or households in the preceding calendar year; or

             (B) Processed the sensitive personal information of 50,000 or more
                    consumers in the preceding calendar year.

Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Section 1798.185, Civil
Code.

§ 7121. Timing Requirements for Cybersecurity Audits and Audit Reports.

(a) A business must complete its first cybersecurity audit report no later than:

      (1) April 1, 2028, if the business's annual gross revenue for 2026 was more
             than one hundred million dollars ($100,000,000) as of January 1, 2027. The
             business's audit would cover the period from January 1, 2027, through
             January 1, 2028.

      (2) April 1, 2029, if the business's annual gross revenue for 2027 was
             between fifty million dollars ($50,000,000) and one hundred million
             dollars ($100,000,000) as of January 1, 2028. The business's audit would
             cover the period from January 1, 2028, through January 1, 2029.

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 88 of 127
      (3) April 1, 2030, if the business's annual gross revenue for 2028 was less
             than fifty million dollars ($50,000,000). The business's audit would cover
             the period from January 1, 2029, through January 1, 2030.

(b) After April 1, 2030, if on January 1 of one year, a business meets the criteria of
      section 7120 for the preceding year, the business must complete a
      cybersecurity audit that covers the next 12 months, and the business must
      complete its cybersecurity audit report for that period by April 1 of the
      following year. For example, if Business A meets the criteria in section 7120 as
      of January 1, 2035, Business A's audit would cover the period from January 1,
      2035, through January 1, 2036, and Business A would have to complete its
      cybersecurity audit report by April 1, 2036.

Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Section 1798.185, Civil
Code.

§ 7122. Thoroughness and Independence of Cybersecurity Audits.

(a) Every business required to complete a cybersecurity audit pursuant to this
      Article must do so using a qualified, objective, independent professional
      ("auditor") using procedures and standards accepted in the profession of
      auditing, such as procedures and standards provided or adopted by the
      American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the Public Company
      Accountability Oversight Board, the Information Systems Audit and Control
      Association, or the International Organization for Standardization.

      (1) To be qualified, an auditor must have knowledge of cybersecurity and how
             to audit a business's cybersecurity program.

      (2) The auditor may be internal or external to the business but must exercise
             objective and impartial judgment on all issues within the scope of the
             cybersecurity audit, must be free to make decisions and assessments
             without influence by the business being audited, including the business's
             owners, managers, or employees; and must not participate in activities
             that may compromise the auditor's independence. For example, the
             auditor must not participate in business activities that the auditor may
             assess in the current or subsequent cybersecurity audits, including
             developing procedures, preparing the business's documents, making
             recommendations regarding the business's cybersecurity program

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 89 of 127
             (separate from articulating audit findings), or implementing or maintaining
             the business's cybersecurity program.

      (3) If a business uses an internal auditor, to maintain the auditor's
             independence, the highest-ranking auditor must report directly to a
             member of the business's executive management team who does not
             have direct responsibility for the business's cybersecurity program. A
             member of the business's executive management team who does not
             have direct responsibility for the business's cybersecurity program must
             conduct the highest-ranking auditor's performance evaluation, if any, and
             determine the auditor's compensation.

(b) The business must make available to the auditor all information in the
      business's possession, custody, or control that the auditor requests as relevant
      to the cybersecurity audit (e.g., information about the business's cybersecurity
      program and information system and the business's use of service providers or
      contractors). For example, the auditor may request information to determine
      the scope of the cybersecurity audit and the criteria the cybersecurity audit
      will use.

(c) The business must make good-faith efforts to disclose to the auditor all facts
      relevant to the cybersecurity audit and must not misrepresent any fact
      relevant to the cybersecurity audit.

(d) No finding of any cybersecurity audit may rely primarily on assertions or
      attestations by the business's management. Cybersecurity audit findings must
      rely primarily upon the specific evidence (including documents reviewed,
      sampling and testing performed, and interviews conducted) that the auditor
      deems appropriate.

(e) The cybersecurity audit report must include the information set forth in section
      7123, subsection (e).

(f) The cybersecurity audit report must be provided to a member of the business's
      executive management team who has direct responsibility for the business's
      cybersecurity program.

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 90 of 127
(g) The business and the auditor must retain all documents relevant to each
      cybersecurity audit for a minimum of five (5) years after completion of the
      cybersecurity audit.

Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Section 1798.185, Civil
Code.

§ 7123. Scope of Cybersecurity Audit and Audit Report.

(a) The cybersecurity audit must assess how the business's cybersecurity
      program: protects personal information from unauthorized access, destruction,
      use, modification, or disclosure; and protects against unauthorized activity
      resulting in the loss of availability of personal information.

(b) The cybersecurity audit must assess:

      (1) The business's establishment, implementation, and maintenance of its
             cybersecurity program, including the related written documentation
             thereof (e.g., policies and procedures), that is appropriate to the
             business's size and complexity and the nature and scope of its processing
             activities, taking into account the state of the art and cost of
             implementing the components of a cybersecurity program; and

      (2) Each of the components of a cybersecurity program listed in subsection
             (c) that the auditor deems applicable to the business's information
             system.

      (3) How the business implements and enforces compliance with its
             cybersecurity program as described in subsection (b)(1), the applicable
             components in subsection (c), and any additional components as set forth
             in subsection (d).

(c) The cybersecurity audit must assess the following components, if applicable:

      (1) Authentication, including:

             (A) Multi-factor authentication (including multi-factor authentication
                    that is resistant to phishing attacks for employees, independent
                    contractors, and any other personnel, service providers, and
                    contractors); and

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 91 of 127
             (B) If the business uses passwords or passphrases, strong unique
                    passwords or passphrases (e.g., passwords that are at least eight
                    characters in length, not on the business's disallowed list of
                    commonly used passwords, and not reused).

      (2) Encryption of personal information, at rest and in transit.

      (3) Account management and access controls, including:

             (A) Restricting each person's, account's, or application's privileges and
                    access to personal information to what is necessary for that person,
                    account, or application to perform their duties. For example:

                    (i) If the person is an employee, independent contractor, or any
                           other personnel, restricting their privileges and access to
                           personal information to what is necessary to perform the
                           respective job functions of each individual, and revoking their
                           privileges and access when their job functions no longer require
                           them, including when their employment or contract is
                           terminated;

                    (ii) If the person is a service provider or contractor, restricting their
                           privileges and access to personal information to what is
                           necessary for the specific business purpose(s) set forth in, and
                           in compliance with, the written contract between the business
                           and the service provider or contractor required by the CCPA and
                           section 7051; and

                    (iii) Restricting the privileges and access of third parties to whom
                           the business sells or shares personal information to the
                           personal information that is necessary for the limited and
                           specified purpose(s) set forth within the contract between the
                           business and the third party required by the CCPA and section
                           7053.

             (B) Restricting the number of privileged accounts, restricting those
                    privileged accounts' access functions to only those necessary to
                    perform the account-holder's job, restricting the use of privileged
                    accounts to when they are necessary to perform functions, and using

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 92 of 127
                    a privileged-access management solution (e.g., to ensure just-in-time
                    temporary assignment of privileged access).

             (C) Restricting and monitoring the creation of new accounts for
                    employees, independent contractors, or other personnel; service
                    providers or contractors; and privileged accounts, and ensuring that
                    the accounts' access and privileges are limited as set forth in
                    subsections (c)(3)(A) and (B).

             (D) Restricting and monitoring physical access to personal information
                    (e.g., through the use of badges, secure physical file locations, and
                    enforcement of clean-desk policies).

      (4) Inventory and management of personal information and the business's
             information system, including:

             (A) Personal information inventories (e.g., maps and flows identifying
                    where personal information is stored, and how it can be accessed)
                    and the classification and tagging of personal information (e.g., how
                    personal information is tagged and how those tags are used to
                    control the use and disclosure of personal information);

             (B) Hardware and software inventories, and the use of allowlisting (i.e.,
                    discrete lists of authorized hardware and software to control what is
                    permitted to connect to and execute on the business's information
                    system); and

             (C) Hardware and software approval processes, and preventing the
                    connection of unauthorized hardware and devices to the business's
                    information system.

      (5) Secure configuration of hardware and software, including:

             (A) Software updates and upgrades;

             (B) Securing on-premises and cloud-based environments;

             (C) Masking (i.e., systematically removing or replacing with symbols
                    such as asterisks or bullets) the sensitive personal information set
                    forth in Civil Code section 1798.145, subdivisions (ae)(1)(A) and (B)

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 93 of 127
                    and other personal information as appropriate by default in
                    applications;

             (D) Security patch management (e.g., receiving systematic notifications
                    of security-related software updates and upgrades; and identifying,
                    deploying, and verifying their implementation); and

             (E) Change management (i.e., processes and procedures to ensure that
                    changes to information system(s) do not undermine existing
                    safeguards).

      (6) Internal and external vulnerability scans, penetration testing, and
             vulnerability disclosure and reporting (e.g., bug bounty and ethical
             hacking programs).

      (7) Audit-log management, including the centralized storage, retention, and
             monitoring of logs.

      (8) Network monitoring and defenses, including the deployment of:

             (A) Technologies, such as bot-detection, intrusion-detection, and
                    intrusion-prevention, which a business may use to detect
                    unsuccessful login attempts, monitor the activity of authorized users,
                    and detect and prevent unauthorized access, destruction, use,
                    modification, or disclosure of personal information; or unauthorized
                    activity resulting in the loss of availability of personal information;
                    and

             (B) Data-loss-prevention systems (e.g., software to detect and prevent
                    unauthorized access, use, or disclosure of personal information).

      (9) Antivirus and antimalware protections.

      (10) Segmentation of an information system (e.g., via properly configured
             firewalls, routers, switches).

      (11) Limitation and control of ports, services, and protocols.

      (12) Cybersecurity awareness, including how the business maintains current
             knowledge of changing cybersecurity threats and countermeasures.

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 94 of 127
      (13) Cybersecurity education and training, including training for each
             employee, independent contractor, and any other personnel to whom the
             business provides access to its information system (e.g., when their
             employment or contract begins, annually thereafter, and after a personal
             information security breach, as described in Civil Code section 1798.150).

      (14) Secure development and coding best practices, including code-reviews
             and testing.

      (15) Oversight of service providers, contractors, and third parties to ensure
             compliance with sections 7051 and 7053.

      (16) Retention schedules and proper disposal of personal information no
             longer required to be retained, by (A) shredding, (B) erasing, or (C)
             otherwise modifying the personal information in those records to make it
             unreadable or undecipherable through any means.

      (17) How the business manages its responses to security incidents (i.e., its
             incident response management).

             (A) For the purposes of subsection (17), "security incident" means an
                    occurrence that actually or imminently jeopardizes the
                    confidentiality, integrity, or availability of the business's information
                    system or the personal information the system processes, stores, or
                    transmits, or that constitutes a violation or imminent threat of
                    violation of the business's cybersecurity program; unauthorized
                    access, destruction, use, modification, or disclosure of personal
                    information; or unauthorized activity resulting in the loss of
                    availability of personal information is a security incident.

             (B) The business's incident response management includes:

                    (i) The business's documentation of predetermined instructions or
                           procedures to detect, respond to, limit the consequences of, and
                           recover from malicious attacks against its information system
                           (i.e., the business's incident response plan); and

                    (ii) How the business tests its incident-response capabilities; and

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 95 of 127
      (18) Business-continuity and disaster-recovery plans, including data-recovery
             capabilities and backups.

(d) Nothing in this section prohibits a cybersecurity audit from assessing
      components of a cybersecurity program that are not set forth in subsections
      (b) or (c).

(e) The cybersecurity audit report must:

      (1) Describe the business's information system; and identify (A) the policies,
             procedures, and practices that the cybersecurity audit assessed; (B) the
             criteria used for the cybersecurity audit; and (C) the specific evidence
             examined to make decisions and assessments, such as documents
             reviewed, sampling and testing performed, and interviews conducted. The
             cybersecurity audit report must also explain why assessing those policies,
             procedures, and practices; using those criteria; and examining that
             specific evidence justify the auditor's findings.

      (2) Identify the applicable components in subsection (c), and any additional
             component assessed in accordance with subsection (d); describe how the
             business implements and enforces compliance with the policies and
             procedures in subsection (b)(1), the applicable components in subsection
             (c), and any additional component assessed in accordance with subsection
             (d); and explain their effectiveness in preventing unauthorized access,
             destruction, use, modification, or disclosure of personal information; and
             preventing unauthorized activity resulting in the loss of availability of
             personal information.

      (3) Identify and describe in detail the status of any gaps or weaknesses of the
             policies and procedures in subsection (b)(1), the applicable components in
             subsection (c), and any additional component assessed in accordance with
             subsection (d), that the auditor deemed to increase the risk of
             unauthorized access, destruction, use, modification, or disclosure of
             consumers' personal information; or increase the risk of unauthorized
             activity resulting in the loss of availability of personal information.

      (4) Document the business's plan to address the gaps and weaknesses
             identified and described pursuant to subsection (e)(3), including the
             timeframe in which it will resolve them.

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 96 of 127
      (5) Identify any corrections or amendments to any prior cybersecurity audit
             reports.

      (6) Include the title of up to three qualified individuals responsible for the
             business's cybersecurity program.

      (7) Include the auditor's name, affiliation, and relevant qualifications.

      (8) Include a statement that is signed and dated by the highest-ranking
             auditor that certifies that they completed an independent review of the
             business's cybersecurity program and information system, exercised
             objective and impartial judgment on all issues within the scope of the
             cybersecurity audit, and did not rely primarily on assertions or
             attestations by the business's management.

      (9) If the business provided notification to affected consumer(s) pursuant to
             Civil Code section 1798.82, subdivision (a), include a sample copy of the
             notification(s), excluding any personal information; or a description of the
             notification(s).

      (10) If the business was required to notify any agency with jurisdiction over
             privacy laws in California of unauthorized access, destruction, use,
             modification, or disclosure of personal information; or unauthorized
             activity resulting in the loss of availability of personal information, include
             a sample copy of the notification(s), excluding any personal information;
             or a description of the required notification(s), the date(s) and details of
             the activity that gave rise to the required notification(s), and any related
             remediation measures taken by the business.

(f) A business may utilize a cybersecurity audit, assessment, or evaluation that it
      has prepared for another purpose, provided that it meets all of the
      requirements of this Article, either on its own or through supplementation. For
      example, a business may have engaged in an audit that uses the National
      Institute of Standards and Technology Cybersecurity Framework 2.0 and
      meets all of the requirements of this Article.

Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Section 1798.185, Civil
Code.

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 97 of 127
§ 7124. Certification of Completion.

(a) Each calendar year that a business is required to complete a cybersecurity
      audit pursuant to this Article, it must submit to the Agency a written
      certification that the business completed the cybersecurity audit as required
      by this Article.

(b) The business must submit the certification no later than April 1 following any
      year that the business is required to complete a cybersecurity audit.

(c) The written certification must be completed by a member of the business's
      executive management team who:

      (1) Is directly responsible for the business's cybersecurity-audit compliance;

      (2) Has sufficient knowledge of the business's cybersecurity audit to provide
             accurate information; and

      (3) Has the authority to submit the business's certification to the Agency.

(d) The written certification must be completed and submitted to the Agency via
      its website at https://cppa.ca.gov/. The certification must include:

      (1) The business's name and point of contact for the business, including the
             contact's name, phone number, and email address.

      (2) A statement that the business has completed the cybersecurity audit.

      (3) The time period covered by the cybersecurity audit, by month and year.

      (4) An electronically signed attestation to the following statement: "I attest
             that I meet the requirements of California Code of Regulations, Title 11,
             section 7124, subsection (c), to submit this certification. Under penalty of
             perjury under the laws of the state of California, I hereby declare that the
             information contained within and submitted with this certification is true
             and correct and that the business has not made any attempt to influence
             the auditor's decisions or assessments regarding the cybersecurity audit."

      (5) The name and business title of the person submitting the certification,
             and the date of the certification.

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 98 of 127
Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Section 1798.185, Civil
Code.

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 99 of 127
                                 ARTICLE 10. RISK ASSESSMENTS

§ 7150. When a Business Must Conduct a Risk Assessment.

(a) Every business whose processing of consumers' personal information presents
      significant risk to consumers' privacy as set forth in subsection (b) must
      conduct a risk assessment before initiating that processing.

(b) Each of the following processing activities presents significant risk to
      consumers' privacy:

      (1) Selling or sharing personal information.

      (2) Processing sensitive personal information.

             (A) A business that processes the sensitive personal information of its
                    employees or independent contractors solely and specifically for
                    purposes of administering compensation payments, determining and
                    storing employment authorization, administering employment
                    benefits, providing reasonable accommodation as required by law, or
                    wage reporting as required by law, is not required to conduct a risk
                    assessment for the processing of sensitive personal information for
                    these purposes. Any other processing of consumers' sensitive
                    personal information is subject to the risk-assessment requirements
                    set forth in this Article.

      (3) Using ADMT for a significant decision concerning a consumer.

      (4) Using automated processing to infer or extrapolate a consumer's
             intelligence, ability, aptitude, performance at work, economic situation,
             health (including mental health), personal preferences, interests,
             reliability, predispositions, behavior, location, or movements, based upon
             systematic observation of that consumer when they are acting in their
             capacity as an educational program applicant, job applicant, student,
             employee, or independent contractor for the business.

      (5) Using automated processing to infer or extrapolate a consumer's
             intelligence, ability, aptitude, performance at work, economic situation,
             health (including mental health), personal preferences, interests,
             reliability, predispositions, behavior, or movements, based upon that

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 100 of 127
             consumer's presence in a sensitive location. "Infer or extrapolate" does
             not include a business using a consumer's personal information solely to
             deliver goods to, or provide transportation for, that consumer at a
             sensitive location.

      (6) Processing the personal information of consumers, which the business
             intends to use to train an ADMT for a significant decision concerning a
             consumer; or train a facial-recognition, emotion-recognition, or other
             technology that verifies a consumer's identity, or conducts physical or
             biological identification or profiling of a consumer. For purposes of this
             paragraph, "intends to use" means the business is using, plans to use,
             permits others to use, plans to permit others to use, is advertising or
             marketing the use of, or plans to advertise or market the use of.

(c) Illustrative examples of when a business must conduct a risk assessment
      follow:

      (1) Business A is hiring a new employee. Business A plans to videotape job
             interviews, then use emotion-recognition technology without human
             involvement to decide who to hire. Business A must conduct a risk
             assessment because it plans to use ADMT for a significant decision
             concerning a consumer.

      (2) Business B provides a mobile dating application. Business B plans to
             disclose consumers' precise geolocation and the ethnicity and medical
             information the consumers provided in their dating profiles to Business
             B's analytics service provider. Business B must conduct a risk assessment
             because it plans to process sensitive personal information of consumers.

      (3) Business C provides a personal-budgeting application into which
             consumers enter their financial information, including income. Business C
             plans to display advertisements to these consumers on different websites
             for payday loans that are based on evaluations of these consumers'
             personal preferences, interests, and reliability from their financial
             information. Business C must conduct a risk assessment because it plans
             to share personal information.

      (4) Business D is a technology provider. Business D plans to extract
             faceprints from consumers' photographs to train Business D's facial-

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 101 of 127
             recognition technology. Business D must conduct a risk assessment
             because it plans to process consumers' personal information to train a
             facial-recognition technology.

Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Section 1798.185, Civil
Code.

§ 7151. Stakeholder Involvement for Risk Assessments.

(a) A business's employees whose job duties include participating in the
      processing of personal information that would be subject to a risk assessment
      must be included in the business's risk assessment process for that processing
      activity. For example, an individual who determines the method by which the
      business plans to collect consumers' personal information for one of the
      processing activities in section 7150, subsection (b), must provide that
      information to the individuals conducting the risk assessment.

(b) In conducting the risk assessment, a business may include external parties in
      the process. For example, a business may utilize or gather information from
      service providers, contractors, experts in detecting and mitigating bias in
      ADMT, a subset of the consumers whose personal information the business
      plans to process, or stakeholders that represent consumers' or others'
      interests, including consumer advocacy organizations.

Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Section 1798.185, Civil
Code.

§ 7152. Risk Assessment Requirements.

(a) A business must conduct a risk assessment to determine whether the risks to
      consumers' privacy from the processing of personal information outweigh the
      benefits to the consumer, the business, other stakeholders, and the public
      from that same processing. The risk assessment must:

      (1) Identify and document in a risk assessment report the business's purpose
             for processing consumers' personal information. The purpose must not be
             identified or described in generic terms, such as "to improve our services"
             or for "security purposes." By contrast, if a business is "improving the
             service" by decreasing consumers' wait times when processing their

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 102 of 127
             privacy rights requests, the business may identify this decrease of wait
             times to process privacy rights requests as the relevant purpose.

      (2) Identify and document in a risk assessment report the categories of
             personal information to be processed, including any categories of
             sensitive personal information. This must include the minimum personal
             information that is necessary to achieve the purpose of processing
             consumers' personal information.

      (3) Identify and document in a risk assessment report the following
             operational elements of the processing:

             (A) The business's planned method for collecting, using, disclosing,
                    retaining, or otherwise processing personal information, and the
                    sources of the personal information.

             (B) How long the business plans to retain each category of personal
                    information, or if unknown, the criteria the business plans to use to
                    determine that retention period.

             (C) The business's method of interacting with the consumers whose
                    personal information the business plans to process (e.g., via
                    websites, applications, or offline) and the purpose of the interaction
                    (e.g., to provide a good or service).

             (D) The approximate number of consumers whose personal information
                    the business plans to process.

             (E) What disclosures the business has made or plans to make to the
                    consumer about the processing of their personal information and
                    how these disclosures were or will be made (e.g., via a just-in-time
                    notice).

             (F) The names or categories of the service providers, contractors, or
                    third parties to whom the business discloses or makes available the
                    consumers' personal information for the processing; and the purpose
                    for which the business discloses or makes the consumers' personal
                    information available to them.

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 103 of 127
             (G) For the uses of ADMT set forth in section 7150, subsections (b)(3),
                    the business must identify:

                    (i) The logic of the ADMT, including any assumptions or limitations
                           of the logic; and

                    (ii) The output of the ADMT, and how the business will use the
                           output to make a significant decision.

      (4) Identify the benefits to the business, the consumer, other stakeholders,
             and the public from the processing of the personal information, as
             applicable. The benefits must not be identified in generic terms, such as
             "improving our service." By contrast, if a benefit of a processing activity is
             to reduce the response time to a consumer's right to know request, a
             business may identify the relevant benefit as enabling consumers to
             receive the personal information they requested on a quicker timeline.

      (5) Identify the negative impacts to consumers' privacy associated with the
             processing. The business must identify the sources and causes of these
             negative impacts.

             For example, negative impacts to consumers' privacy that a business may
             consider include the following:

             (A) Unauthorized access, destruction, use, modification, or disclosure of
                    personal information; and unauthorized activity resulting in the loss
                    of availability of personal information.

             (B) Discrimination upon the basis of protected characteristics that would
                    violate federal or state law.

             (C) Impairing consumers' control over their personal information, such as
                    by providing insufficient information for consumers to make an
                    informed decision regarding the processing of their personal
                    information, or by interfering with consumers' ability to make choices
                    consistent with their reasonable expectations.

             (D) Coercing or compelling consumers into allowing the processing of
                    their personal information, such as by conditioning consumers'
                    acquisition or use of an online service upon their disclosure of

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 104 of 127
                    personal information that is unnecessary to the expected
                    functionality of the service, or requiring consumers to consent to
                    processing when such consent cannot be freely given (e.g., because
                    it was obtained through the use of a dark pattern).

             (E) Economic harms, including limiting or depriving consumers of
                    economic opportunities, charging consumers higher prices, or
                    compensating consumers at lower rates based upon profiling; or
                    imposing additional costs upon consumers, including costs
                    associated with the unauthorized access to consumers' personal
                    information.

             (F) Physical harms to consumers or to property, including processing
                    that creates the opportunity for physical or sexual violence.

             (G) Reputational harms, including stigmatization, that could negatively
                    impact an average consumer, such as stigmatization of a consumer
                    as a result of a mobile dating application's disclosure of the
                    consumer's sexual or other preferences in a partner outside of the
                    dating application.

             (H) Psychological harms, including emotional distress, stress, anxiety,
                    embarrassment, fear, frustration, shame, and feelings of violation,
                    that could negatively impact an average consumer. Examples of such
                    harms include emotional distress resulting from disclosure of
                    nonconsensual intimate imagery or disclosure of a consumer's
                    purchase of pregnancy tests or emergency contraception for non-
                    medical purposes.

      (6) Identify and document in a risk assessment report any safeguards that
             the business plans to implement for the processing, such as safeguards to
             address the negative impacts identified in subsection (a)(5).

             (A) For example, safeguards that a business may consider include the
                    following:

                    (i) Encryption, segmentation of information systems, physical and
                           logical access controls, change management, network
                           monitoring and defenses, and data and integrity monitoring;

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 105 of 127
                    (ii) Use of privacy-enhancing technologies, such as trusted
                           execution environments, federated learning, homomorphic
                           encryption, and differential privacy;

                    (iii) Consulting external parties, such as those described in section
                           7151, subsection (b), to ensure that the business maintains
                           current knowledge of emergent privacy risks and
                           countermeasures; and using that knowledge to identify, assess,
                           and mitigate risks to consumers' privacy; and

                    (iv) Implementing policies, procedures, and training to ensure that
                           the business's ADMT works for the business's purpose and does
                           not unlawfully discriminate based upon protected
                           characteristics.

      (7) Identify and document in a risk assessment report whether it will initiate
             the processing subject to the risk assessment.

      (8) Identify and document in a risk assessment report the individuals who
             provided the information for the risk assessment, except for legal counsel
             who provided legal advice.

      (9) Identify and document in a risk assessment report the date the
             assessment was reviewed and approved, and the names and positions of
             the individuals who reviewed or approved the assessment, except for
             legal counsel who provided legal advice. An individual who has the
             authority to participate in deciding whether the business will initiate the
             processing that is the subject of the risk assessment must review and
             approve the assessment.

Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Section 1798.185, Civil
Code.

§ 7153. Additional Requirements for Businesses that Process Personal
Information to Train Automated Decisionmaking Technology.

(a) A business that makes ADMT available to another business ("recipient-
      business") to make a significant decision as set forth in section 7150,
      subsection (b)(3), must provide to the recipient-business all facts available to

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 106 of 127
      the business that are necessary for the recipient-business to conduct its own
      risk assessment.

(b) The requirements of this section apply only to ADMT trained using personal
      information.

Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Section 1798.185, Civil
Code.

§ 7154. Goal of a Risk Assessment.

(a) The goal of a risk assessment is restricting or prohibiting the processing of
      personal information if the risks to privacy of the consumer outweigh the
      benefits resulting from processing to the consumer, the business, other
      stakeholders, and the public.

Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Section 1798.185, Civil
Code.

§ 7155. Timing and Retention Requirements for Risk Assessments.

(a) A business must comply with the following timing requirements for conducting
      and updating its risk assessments:

      (1) A business must conduct and document a risk assessment in accordance
             with the requirements of this Article before initiating any processing
             activity identified in section 7150, subsection (b).

      (2) At least once every three years, a business must review, and update as
             necessary, its risk assessments to ensure that they remain accurate in
             accordance with the requirements of this Article.

      (3) Notwithstanding subsection (a)(2) of this section, a business must update
             a risk assessment whenever there is a material change relating to the
             processing activity, as soon as feasibly possible, but no later than 45
             calendar days from the date of the material change. A change relating to
             the processing activity is material if it creates new negative impacts or
             increases the magnitude or likelihood of previously identified negative
             impacts as set forth in section 7152, subsection (a)(5), or diminishes the

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 107 of 127
             effectiveness of the safeguards as set forth in section 7152, subsection
             (a)(6).

             Material changes may include, for example, changes to the purpose of the
             processing; the minimum personal information necessary to achieve the
             purpose of the processing; or the risks to consumers' privacy raised by
             consumers (e.g., numerous consumers complain to a business about the
             risks that the business's processing poses to their privacy).

(b) For any processing activity identified in section 7150, subsection (b), that the
      business initiated prior to [OAL to fill in the effective date of these regulations]
      and that continues after [OAL to fill in the effective date of these regulations],
      the business must conduct, and document as set forth in section 7152, a risk
      assessment in accordance with the requirements of this Article no later than
      December 31, 2027. The business must comply with the submission
      requirements set forth in section 7157, subsection (a)(1).

(c) A business must retain its risk assessments, including original and updated
      versions, for as long as the processing continues or for five years after the
      completion of the risk assessment, whichever is later.

Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Section 1798.185, Civil
Code.

§ 7156. Conducting Risk Assessments for a Comparable Set of Processing
Activities or in Compliance with Other Laws or Regulations.

(a) A business may conduct a single risk assessment for a comparable set of
      processing activities. A "comparable set of processing activities" that can be
      addressed by a single risk assessment is a set of similar processing activities
      that present similar risks to consumers' privacy.

      (1) For example, Business E sells toys to children and is considering using in-
             store paper forms to collect names, mailing addresses, and birthdays
             from children that visit their stores, and to use that information to mail a
             coupon and list of age-appropriate toys to each child during the child's
             birth month and every November. Business E uses the same service
             providers and technology for each category of mailings across all stores.
             Business E must conduct a risk assessment, including documenting

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 108 of 127
             required information in its risk assessment report, because it is
             processing sensitive personal information. Business E may use a single
             risk assessment for processing the personal information for the birthday
             mailing and November mailing across all stores because in each case it is
             collecting the same personal information in the same way for the purpose
             of sending coupons and age-appropriate toy lists to children, and this
             processing presents similar risks to consumers' privacy.

(b) A business may utilize a risk assessment that it has prepared for another
      purpose to meet the requirements in section 7152, provided that the risk
      assessment contains the information that must be included in, or is paired with
      the outstanding information necessary for, compliance with section 7152.

      (1) For example, Business F plans to sell consumers' personal information.
             Business F conducts a risk assessment for that processing activity using a
             data protection assessment that is compliant with another state law. That
             state law requires the information that must be in section 7152, but does
             not explicitly require some of the information in subsections (a)(2)-(3), (7),
             or require the name and position of the individual who has the authority to
             participate in deciding whether the business will initiate the processing
             that is subject to the risk assessment. Business F must also include this
             information in its risk assessment to meet the requirements in section
             7152.

Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Section 1798.185, Civil
Code.

§ 7157. Submission of Risk Assessments to the Agency.

(a) Timing of Risk Assessment Submissions.

      (1) For risk assessments conducted in 2026 and 2027, the business must
             submit to the Agency the information required by subsection (b) no later
             than April 1, 2028.

      (2) For risk assessments conducted after 2027, the business must submit to
             the Agency the information required by subsection (b) no later than April 1
             following any year during which the business conducted the risk
             assessments. For example, for risk assessments conducted in 2028, the

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 109 of 127
             business must submit to the Agency the information required by
             subsection (b) no later than April 1, 2029.

(b) A business must submit to the Agency the following risk assessment
      information:

      (1) The business's name and a point of contact for the business, including the
             contact's name, phone number, and email address.

      (2) The time period covered by the submission, by month and year.

      (3) The number of risk assessments conducted or updated by the business
             during the time period covered by the submission, in total and for each of
             the processing activities identified in section 7150, subsection (b).

      (4) Whether the risk assessments conducted or updated by the business
             during the time period covered by the submission involved the processing
             of each of the categories of personal information and sensitive personal
             information identified in Civil Code section 1798.140, subdivisions (v)(1)(A)-
             (L), (ae)(1)(A)-(G), and (ae)(2)(A)-(C).

      (5) Attestation to the following statement: "I attest that the business has
             conducted a risk assessment for the processing activities set forth in
             California Code of Regulations, Title 11, section 7150, subsection (b),
             during the time period covered by this submission, and that I meet the
             requirements of section 7157, subsection (c). Under penalty of perjury
             under the laws of the state of California, I hereby declare that the risk
             assessment information submitted is true and correct."

      (6) The name and business title of the person submitting the risk assessment
             information, and the date of the certification.

(c) The individual submitting the information set forth in subsection (b) must be a
      member of the business's executive management team who:

      (1) Is directly responsible for the business's risk-assessment compliance;

      (2) Has sufficient knowledge of the business's risk assessment to provide
             accurate information; and

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 110 of 127
      (3) Has the authority to submit the risk assessment information to the
             Agency.

(d) The risk assessment information must be submitted to the Agency via the
      Agency's website at https://cppa.ca.gov/.

(e) The Agency or the Attorney General may require a business to submit its risk
      assessment reports to the Agency or to the Attorney General at any time. A
      business must submit its risk assessment reports within 30 calendar days of
      the Agency's or the Attorney General's request.

Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Section 1798.185, Civil
Code.

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 111 of 127
              ARTICLE 11. AUTOMATED DECISIONMAKING TECHNOLOGY

§ 7200. When a Business's Use of Automated Decisionmaking Technology is
Subject to the Requirements of This Article.

(a) A business that uses ADMT to make a significant decision concerning a
      consumer must comply with the requirements of this Article.

(b) A business that uses ADMT for a significant decision prior to January 1, 2027,
      must be in compliance with the requirements of this Article no later than
      January 1, 2027. A business that uses ADMT on or after January 1, 2027, must
      be in compliance with the requirements of this Article any time it is using
      ADMT for a significant decision.

Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Section 1798.185, Civil
Code.

§ 7220. Pre-use Notice Requirements.

(a) A business that uses ADMT as set forth in section 7200, subsection (a), must
      provide consumers with a Pre-use Notice. The Pre-use Notice must inform
      consumers about the business's use of ADMT and consumers' rights to opt-out
      of ADMT and to access ADMT, as set forth in this section. A business may
      provide a Pre-use Notice in its Notice at Collection, provided that the Notice at
      Collection complies with, and includes the information required by,
      subsections (b) and (c).

(b) The Pre-use Notice must:

      (1) Comply with section 7003, subsections (a)-(b).

      (2) Be presented prominently and conspicuously to the consumer at or before
             the point when the business collects the consumer's personal information
             that the business plans to process using ADMT. If a business has already
             collected the consumer's personal information for a different purpose and
             subsequently plans to process it using ADMT for the purpose set forth in
             section 7200, subsection (a), the business must provide a Pre-use Notice
             before processing the consumer's personal information for that purpose.

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 112 of 127
      (3) Be presented in the manner in which the business primarily interacts with
             the consumer.

(c) The Pre-use Notice must include the following:

      (1) A plain language explanation of the specific purpose for which the
             business plans to use the ADMT. The business must not describe the
             purpose in generic terms, such as "to make a significant decision" without
             further information, because this does not describe to the consumer the
             specific decision for which the business plans to use ADMT with respect
             to them.

      (2) A description of the consumer's right to opt-out of ADMT and how the
             consumer can submit a request to opt-out of ADMT.

             (A) If the business is not required to provide the ability to opt-out
                    because it is relying upon the human appeal exception set forth in
                    section 7221, subsection (b)(1), the business must instead inform the
                    consumer of their ability to appeal the decision and provide
                    instructions to the consumer on how to submit their appeal.

             (B) If the business is not required to provide the ability to opt-out
                    because it is relying upon another exception set forth in section 7221,
                    subsection (b), the business must identify the specific exception it is
                    relying upon.

      (3) A description of the consumer's right to access ADMT with respect to the
             consumer and how the consumer can submit their request to access
             ADMT to the business.

      (4) That the business is prohibited from retaliating against consumers for
             exercising their CCPA rights.

      (5) Additional information about how the ADMT works to make a significant
             decision about consumers, and how the significant decision would be
             made if a consumer opts out. The business may provide this information
             via a simple and easy-to-use method (e.g., a layered notice or hyperlink).
             The additional information must include a plain language explanation of
             the following:

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 113 of 127
             (A) How the ADMT processes personal information to make a significant
                    decision about consumers, including the categories of personal
                    information that affect the output generated by the ADMT. An
                    "output" may include predictions, decisions, and recommendations
                    (e.g., numerical scores of compatibility).

             (B) The type of output generated by the ADMT, and how that output is
                    used to make a significant decision. For example, this may include
                    whether the output is the sole factor in the decisionmaking process
                    or what the other factors are in that decisionmaking process; and to
                    the extent that a human is part of the decisionmaking process in a
                    manner that does not meet the requirements of "human involvement"
                    in section 7001, subsection (e)(1), what that human's role is in the
                    decisionmaking process.

             (C) What the alternative process for making a significant decision is for
                    consumers who opt out, unless an exception to providing the opt-out
                    of ADMT set forth in section 7221, subsection (b), applies.

(d) In providing the information required by subsection (c)(5), a business's Pre-use
      Notice is not required to include:

      (1) Trade secrets, as defined in Civil Code section 3426.1, subdivision (d); or

      (2) Information that would compromise the business's ability to:

             (A) Prevent, detect, and investigate security incidents that compromise
                    the availability, authenticity, integrity, or confidentiality of stored or
                    transmitted personal information;

             (B) Resist malicious, deceptive, fraudulent, or illegal actions directed at
                    the business or at consumers, or to prosecute those responsible for
                    those actions; or

             (C) Ensure the physical safety of natural persons.

(e) A business may provide a consolidated Pre-use Notice as set forth below,
      provided that the consolidated Pre-use Notice includes the information
      required by this Article for each of the business's proposed uses of ADMT:

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 114 of 127
      (1) The business's use of a single ADMT for multiple purposes. For example,
             an employer may provide a consolidated Pre-use Notice to an employee
             that addresses the employer's proposed use of productivity monitoring
             software to determine the employee's allocation/assignment of work and
             compensation, and to determine which employees will be demoted.

      (2) The business's use of multiple ADMTs for a single purpose. For example, a
             business may provide a consolidated Pre-use Notice to a job applicant
             that addresses the business's proposed use of: (1) software to screen
             applicants' resumes to determine which applicants it will hire, and (2)
             software to evaluate applicants' vocal intonation, facial expression, and
             gestures to determine which applicants to hire.

      (3) The business's use of multiple ADMTs for multiple purposes. For example,
             an educational provider may provide a consolidated Pre-use Notice to a
             new student that addresses the educational provider's proposed use of:
             (A) software that automatically screens students' work for plagiarism to
             determine whether they will be suspended, and (B) software that
             automatically assesses students' exams to determine whether to grant
             them a diploma or certificate.

      (4) The systematic use of a single ADMT. For example, a business may
             provide a consolidated Pre-use Notice to an employee that addresses the
             business's methodical and regular use of ADMT to allocate work to its
             employees, rather than providing a Pre-use Notice to the same employees
             each time it proposes to use the same ADMT for the same purpose.

Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Section 1798.185, Civil
Code.

§ 7221. Requests to Opt-Out of ADMT.

(a) A business must provide consumers with the ability to opt-out of the use of
       ADMT to make a significant decision concerning the consumer, except as set
       forth in subsection (b).

(b) A business is not required to provide consumers with the ability to opt-out of a
       business's use of ADMT to make a significant decision in the following
       circumstances:

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 115 of 127
      (1) The business provides the consumer with a method to appeal the decision
             to a human reviewer who has the authority to overturn the decision. To
             qualify for this exception, the business must do the following:

             (A) Designate a human reviewer to review and analyze the output of the
                    ADMT and any other information that is relevant to change the
                    significant decision at issue. This human reviewer must consider the
                    information provided by the consumer in support of their appeal and
                    may consider any other sources of information about the significant
                    decision. The human reviewer must know how to interpret and use
                    the output of the ADMT that made the significant decision being
                    appealed and must have the authority to change the decision based
                    on their analysis.

             (B) Clearly describe to the consumer how to submit an appeal and
                    enable the consumer to provide information to the human reviewer in
                    support of their appeal. The method of appeal must be easy for the
                    consumers to execute, require minimal steps, and comply with
                    section 7004. Disclosures and communications with consumers
                    concerning the appeal must comply with section 7003, subsections
                    (a)-(b). The timeline for requests to appeal ADMT must comply with
                    section 7021. Businesses must comply with the verification
                    requirements set forth in Article 5 when a consumer submits an
                    appeal.

      (2) For admission, acceptance, or hiring decisions as set forth in section 7001,
             subsections (ddd)(3)(A) and (ddd)(4)(A), if the following are true:

             (A) The business uses the ADMT solely for the business's assessment of
                    the consumer's ability to perform at work or in an educational
                    program to determine whether to admit, accept, or hire them; and

             (B) The ADMT works for the business's purpose and does not unlawfully
                    discriminate based upon protected characteristics.

      (3) For allocation/assignment of work and compensation decisions as set
             forth in section 7001, subsection (ddd)(4)(B), if the following are true:

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 116 of 127
             (A) The business uses the ADMT solely for the business's
                    allocation/assignment of work or compensation; and

             (B) The ADMT works for the business's purpose and does not unlawfully
                    discriminate based upon protected characteristics.

(c) A business that uses ADMT as set forth in subsection (a) must provide two or
      more designated methods for submitting requests to opt-out of ADMT. A
      business must consider the methods by which it interacts with consumers, the
      manner in which the business uses the ADMT, and the ease of use by the
      consumer when determining which methods consumers may use to submit
      requests to opt-out of the business's use of the ADMT. At least one method
      offered must reflect the manner in which the business primarily interacts with
      the consumer. Illustrative examples and requirements follow.

      (1) A business that interacts with consumers online must, at a minimum,
             allow consumers to submit requests to opt-out through an interactive
             form accessible via an opt-out link that is provided in the Pre-use Notice.
             The link title must state what the consumer is opting out of, such as "Opt-
             out of Automated Decisionmaking Technology."

      (2) A business that interacts with consumers in person and online may
             provide an in-person method for submitting requests to opt-out in addition
             to the online form.

      (3) Other methods for submitting requests to opt-out include, but are not
             limited to, a toll-free phone number, a designated email address, a form
             submitted in person, and a form submitted through the mail.

      (4) A notification or tool regarding cookies, such as a cookie banner or cookie
             controls, is not by itself an acceptable method for submitting requests to
             opt-out of the business's use of ADMT because cookies concern the
             collection of personal information and not necessarily the use of ADMT.
             An acceptable method for submitting requests to opt-out must be
             specific to the right to opt-out of the business's use of the ADMT.

(d) A business's methods for submitting requests to opt-out of ADMT must be
      easy for consumers to execute, must require minimal steps, and must comply
      with section 7004.

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 117 of 127
(e) A business must not require a consumer submitting a request to opt-out of
      ADMT to create an account or provide additional information beyond what is
      necessary to direct the business to opt-out the consumer.

(f) A business must not require a verifiable consumer request for a request to opt-
      out of ADMT set forth in subsection (a). A business may ask the consumer for
      information necessary to complete the request, such as information necessary
      to identify the consumer whose information is subject to the business's use of
      ADMT. However, to the extent that the business can comply with a request to
      opt-out of ADMT without additional information, it must do so.

(g) If a business has a good-faith, reasonable, and documented belief that a
      request to opt-out of ADMT is fraudulent, the business may deny the request.
      The business must inform the requestor that it will not comply with the request
      and must provide to the requestor an explanation why it believes the request is
      fraudulent.

(h) A business must provide a means by which the consumer can confirm that the
      business has processed their request to opt-out of ADMT.

(i) In responding to a request to opt-out of ADMT, a business may present the
      consumer with the choice to allow specific uses of ADMT as long as the
      business also offers a single option to opt-out of all of the business's uses of
      ADMT set forth in subsection (a).

(j) A consumer may use an authorized agent to submit a request to opt-out of
      ADMT as set forth in subsection (a) on the consumer's behalf if the consumer
      provides the authorized agent written permission signed by the consumer. A
      business may deny a request from an authorized agent if the agent does not
      provide to the business the consumer's signed permission demonstrating that
      they have been authorized by the consumer to act on the consumer's behalf.

(k) Except as allowed by these regulations, a business must wait at least 12
      months from the date the business receives the consumer's request to opt-out
      of ADMT before asking a consumer who has exercised their right to opt-out of
      ADMT, to consent to the business's use of the ADMT for which the consumer
      previously opted out.

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 118 of 127
(l) A business must not retaliate against a consumer because the consumer
      exercised their opt-out right as set forth in Civil Code section 1798.125 and
      Article 7.

(m) If the consumer submits a request to opt-out of ADMT before the business has
      initiated that processing, the business must not initiate processing of the
      consumer's personal information using that ADMT.

(n) If the consumer did not opt-out in response to the Pre-use Notice, and
      submitted a request to opt-out of ADMT after the business initiated the
      processing, the business must comply with the consumer's opt-out request by:

      (1) Ceasing to process the consumer's personal information using that ADMT
             as soon as feasibly possible, but no later than 15 business days from the
             date the business receives the request; and

      (2) Notifying all the business's service providers, contractors, or other
             persons to whom the business has disclosed or made personal
             information available to process the consumer's personal information
             using that ADMT, that the consumer has made a request to opt-out of that
             ADMT and instructing them to comply with the consumer's request to opt-
             out of that ADMT within the same time frame.

Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Sections 1798.125 and
1798.185, Civil Code.

§ 7222. Requests to Access ADMT.

(a) A business that uses ADMT to make a significant decision must provide a
      consumer with information about this use when responding to a consumer's
      request to access ADMT.

(b) When responding to a consumer's request to access ADMT, a business must
      provide plain language explanations of the following information to the
      consumer:

      (1) The specific purpose for which the business used ADMT with respect to
             the consumer. The business must not describe the purpose in generic
             terms, such as "to improve our services."

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 119 of 127
      (2) Information about the logic of the ADMT. Such information must enable a
             consumer to understand how the ADMT processed their personal
             information to generate an output with respect to them, which may
             include the parameters that generated the output as well as the specific
             output with respect to the consumer.

      (3) The outcome of the decisionmaking process for the consumer, including
             how the business used the output of the ADMT to make a significant
             decision with respect to the consumer. For example, this may include
             information about whether the output was the sole factor to make the
             decision; and if it was not the sole factor, which other factors played a
             role in making the decision; and to the extent that a human was part of the
             decisionmaking process in a manner that does not meet the requirements
             of "human involvement" in section 7001, subsection (e)(1), what that
             human's role was in the decisionmaking process.

             (A) If the business also plans to use the output to make an additional
                    significant decision concerning the consumer in the future, the
                    business's explanation must include how the business plans to use
                    that output to make a significant decision about the consumer in the
                    future. For example, this may include whether the output will be the
                    sole factor in the decisionmaking process or what the other factors
                    will be in that decisionmaking process; and to the extent that a
                    human will be part of the decisionmaking process in a manner that
                    does not meet the requirements of "human involvement" in section
                    7001, subsection (e)(1), what that human's role will be in the
                    decisionmaking process.

      (4) That the business is prohibited from retaliating against consumers for
             exercising their CCPA rights, and instructions for how the consumer can
             exercise their other CCPA rights. These instructions must include any
             links to an online request form or portal for making such a request, if
             offered by the business.

             (A) The business may comply with the instructions requirement by
                    providing a link that takes the consumer directly to the specific
                    section of the business's privacy policy that contains these
                    instructions. Directing the consumer to the beginning of the privacy

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 120 of 127
                    policy, or to another section of the privacy policy that does not
                    contain these instructions, so that the consumer is required to scroll
                    through other information in order to find the instructions, does not
                    satisfy the instructions requirement.

(c) In providing the information required by subsections (b)(2)-(3), a business's
      response to a consumer's request to access ADMT is not required to include:

      (1) Trade secrets, as defined in Civil Code section 3426.1, subdivision (d); or

      (2) Information that would compromise the business's ability to:

             (A) Prevent, detect, and investigate security incidents that compromise
                    the availability, authenticity, integrity, or confidentiality of stored or
                    transmitted personal information;

             (B) Resist malicious, deceptive, fraudulent, or illegal actions directed at
                    the business or at consumers, or to prosecute those responsible for
                    those actions; or

             (C) Ensure the physical safety of natural persons.

(d) A business's methods for consumers to submit requests to access ADMT must
      be easy to use and must not use dark patterns. A business may use its existing
      methods to submit requests to know, delete, or correct as set forth in section
      7020 for requests to access ADMT.

(e) A business must comply with the verification requirements set forth in Article
      5 for requests to access ADMT. If a business cannot verify the identity of the
      person making the request to access ADMT, the business must inform the
      requestor that it cannot verify their identity.

(f) If a business denies a consumer's verified request to exercise their right to
      access ADMT, in whole or in part, because of a conflict with federal or state
      law, or an exception to the CCPA, the business must inform the requestor and
      explain the basis for the denial, unless prohibited from doing so by law. If the
      request is denied only in part, the business must disclose the other information
      sought by the consumer.

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 121 of 127
(g) A business must use reasonable security measures when transmitting the
      requested information to the consumer.

(h) If a business maintains a password-protected account with the consumer, it
      may comply with a request to access ADMT by using a secure self-service
      portal for consumers to access, view, and receive a portable copy of their
      requested information if the portal fully discloses the requested information
      that the consumer is entitled to under the CCPA and these regulations, uses
      reasonable data security controls, and complies with the verification
      requirements set forth in Article 5.

(i) A service provider or contractor must provide assistance to the business in
      responding to a verifiable consumer request to access ADMT, including by
      providing the business with the consumer's personal information it has in its
      possession that it collected pursuant to their written contract with the
      business, or by enabling the business to access that personal information.

(j) A business that used an ADMT with respect to a consumer more than four
      times within a 12-month period may provide an aggregate-level response to
      the consumer's request to access ADMT. Specifically, for the information
      required by subsection (b)(2), the business may provide a summary of the
      outputs with respect to the consumer over the preceding 12 months; the
      parameters that, on average over the preceding 12 months, affected the
      outputs with respect to the consumer; and a summary of how those
      parameters applied to the consumer.

(k) A business must not retaliate against a consumer because the consumer
      exercised their right to access ADMT as set forth in Civil Code section
      1798.125 and Article 7.

(l) Nothing in this section prohibits a business from providing additional
      information to enable a consumer to understand how the ADMT was used to
      make a significant decision with respect to them. For example, a business may
      provide the range of possible outputs or aggregate output statistics to help a
      consumer understand how they compare to other consumers, such as the five
      most common outputs of the ADMT and the percentage of consumers that
      received each of those outputs during the preceding calendar year.

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 122 of 127
Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Sections 1798.125 and
1798.185, Civil Code.

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 123 of 127
                              ARTICLE 12. INSURANCE COMPANIES

§ 7270. Definition of Insurance Company.

(a) For the purposes of these regulations, insurance company shall mean any
      person that is subject to the California Insurance Code and its regulations.
      Insurance company shall include insurance institutions, agents, and insurance-
      support organizations, as those terms are defined in Insurance Code, section
      791.02.

Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Section 1798.185, Civil
Code.

§ 7271. General Application of the CCPA to Insurance Companies.

(a) Insurance companies that meet the definition of "business" under the CCPA
      shall comply with the CCPA with regard to any personal information not
      subject to the Insurance Code and its regulations. For example, those
      insurance companies shall comply with the CCPA for personal information that
      is collected for purposes not in connection with an insurance transaction, as
      that term is defined in Insurance Code, section 791.02.

(b) Illustrative examples follow.

      (1) Insurance company A collects personal information from visitors of its
             website who have not applied for any insurance product or other financial
             product or service from Company A. This information is used to tailor
             personalized advertisements across different business websites.
             Insurance company A must comply with the CCPA, including by providing
             consumers the right to opt-out of the sale/sharing of their personal
             information and honoring opt-out preference signals, because the
             personal information collected from the website browsing is not related
             to an application for or provision of an insurance transaction or other
             financial product or service.

      (2) Insurance company B collects personal information from its employees
             and job applicants for employment purposes. Insurance company B must
             comply with the CCPA with regard to employee information, including by
             providing a Notice at Collection to the employees and job applicants at or

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 124 of 127
             before the time their personal information is collected. This is because the
             personal information collected in this situation is not subject to the
             Insurance Code or its regulations.
      (3) Sloane submits personal information to her insurance company as part of
             a claim for losses incurred by a fire at her home. This information is used
             to service the insurance policy, and thus subject to the Insurance Code
             and its regulations. This information is not subject to the CCPA.
Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Section 1798.100,
1798.105, 1798.106, 1798.110, 1798.115, 1798.120, 1798.121, 1798.125, 1798.130,
1798.135, 1798.145, 1798.150, 1798.155, 1798.185, Civil Code.

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 125 of 127
                   ARTICLE 9 13. INVESTIGATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT

§ 7300. Sworn Complaints Filed with the Agency.
(a) Requirements for filing a sworn complaint. Sworn complaints may must be

      filed with the Enforcement Division via the electronic complaint system
      available on the Agency's website at https://cppa.ca.gov/ or submitted in
      person or by mail to the headquarters office of the Agency.
      A complaint must:
      (1) Identify the business, service provider, contractor, or person who

             allegedly violated the CCPA;
      (2) State the facts that support each alleged violation and include any

             documents or other evidence supporting this conclusion;
      (3) Authorize the alleged violator and the Agency to communicate regarding

             the complaint, including disclosing the complaint and any information
             relating to the complaint;
      (4) Include the name and current contact information of the complainant; and
      (5) Be signed and submitted under penalty of perjury.
(b) The Enforcement Division will notify the complainant in writing of the action, if
      any, the Agency has taken or plans to take on the complaint, together with the
      reasons for that action or nonaction. Duplicate complaints submitted by the
      same complainant may be rejected without notice.
Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Section 1798.199.45,
Civil Code.

§ 7302. Probable Cause Proceedings.
(a) Probable Cause. Under Civil Code section 1798.199.50, probable cause exists

      when the evidence supports a reasonable belief that the CCPA has been
      violated.

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 126 of 127
(b) Probable Cause Notice. The Enforcement Division Agency will provide the
      alleged violator with notice of the probable cause proceeding as required by
      Civil Code section 1798.199.50.

(c) Probable Cause Proceeding.

      (1) The proceeding shall be closed to the public and conducted in whole or in
             part by telephone or videoconference unless the alleged violator files, at
             least 10 business days before the proceeding, a written request for an in-
             person or public proceeding. If the proceeding is not open to the public,
             then the proceeding may be conducted in whole or in part by telephone or
             videoconference.

      (2) The Agency shall conduct the proceeding informally. Only the alleged
             violator(s), their legal counsel, and the Enforcement Division shall have
             the right to participate at the proceeding. The Agency shall determine
             whether there is probable cause based on the probable cause notice and
             any information or arguments presented at the probable cause
             proceeding by the parties.

      (3) If the alleged violator(s) fails to participate or appear at attend the
             probable cause proceeding, the alleged violator(s) waives the right to
             further probable cause proceedings under Civil Code section 1798.199.50,
             and the Agency shall determine whether there is probable cause based on
             the notice and any information or arguments provided by the Enforcement
             Division.

(d) Probable Cause Determination. The Agency shall issue a written decision with
      its probable cause determination and serve it on the alleged violator
      electronically or by mail. The Agency's probable cause determination is final
      and not subject to appeal.

(e) Notices of probable cause and probable cause determinations shall not be
      open to the public nor admissible in evidence in any action or special
      proceeding other than one enforcing the CCPA.

Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Section 1798.199.50,
Civil Code.

CA PRIVACY PROTECTION AGENCY - TEXT OF REGULATIONS
(CCPA Updates, Cyber, Risk, ADMT, and Insurance Regulations)
Page 127 of 127
