 1 
 
Translation 
 
The following document is South Korea’s overarching AI law, passed in January 2025 and 
slated to take effect in January 2026. Its provisions include incentives to attract foreign AI 
experts to South Korea, and a requirement that foreign AI companies operating in the 
country designate a Korean representative to liaise with the government on their behalf. 
Notably, the law establishes an AI safety research institute, encourages the creation of AI 
ethics committees, and includes many other measures related to AI safety and ethics. 
Title 
Framework Act on the Development of Artificial Intelligence and Establishment of Trust 
인공지능 발전과 신뢰 기반 조성 등에 관한 기본법 
Author 
South Korean Ministry of Government Legislation (법제처) 
Source 
Korean Law Information Center (국가법령정보센터), January 21, 2025. The Korean Law Information 
Center is an online portal under the Ministry of Government Legislation. 
The Korean source text is available online at: 
https://www.law.go.kr/%EB%B2%95%EB%A0%B9/%EC%9D%B8%EA%B3%B5%EC%A7%80%E
B%8A%A5%20%EB%B0%9C%EC%A0%84%EA%B3%BC%20%EC%8B%A0%EB%A2%B0%20%
EA%B8%B0%EB%B0%98%20%EC%A1%B0%EC%84%B1%20%EB%93%B1%EC%97%90%20%
EA%B4%80%ED%95%9C%20%EA%B8%B0%EB%B3%B8%EB%B2%95/(20676,20250121) 
An archived version of the Korean source text is available online at:    https://perma.cc/CL3T-VHZ6 
Translation Date 
July 9, 2025 
Translator 
Etcetera Language Group, Inc. 
Editor 
Ben Murphy, CSET Translation Manager 
 
Framework Act on the Development of Artificial Intelligence and 
Establishment of Trust1 
[Enforced January 22, 2026] [Law No. 20676, Enacted January 21, 2025] 
Chapter 1 General Provisions  
 
1 Translator’s note: This translation follows the 2024 edition of the Korea Legislation Research Institute 
(한국법제연구원) Korean-English Legal Translation Guidelines (한영 법령번역지침), page 50, in 
translating 기본법 as “framework act.” A more literal translation of the Act’s title would be “Basic Act on 
the Development of Artificial Intelligence and Establishment of Trust.” An archived version of the 
Korean-English Legal Translation Guidelines is available online at: https://perma.cc/59J9-PZHQ. 

 2 
Article 1 (Purpose) The purpose of this Act is to protect human rights and dignity, and 
to contribute to enhance the quality of life, while strengthening national 
competitiveness by establishing essential regulations for the sound development of 
artificial intelligence (AI) and the establishment of trust.  
Article 2 (Definitions) The definitions of the terms used in this Act are as follows:  
1. “Artificial Intelligence” refers to the electronic implementation of human 
intellectual abilities, such as learning, reasoning, perception, judgment, and 
understanding of language. 
2. “AI System” refers to an AI-based system that infers results such as predictions, 
recommendations, and decisions that affect the real and virtual environment for a 
given objective with various levels of autonomy and adaptability.  
3. “AI Technology” refers to hardware, software, or application technologies 
necessary for AI implementation. 
4. “High-Impact AI” refers to AI systems that have the potential to significantly 
impact human life, safety, or fundamental rights, used in any of the following 
areas:  
a) Supply of energy pursuant to Article 2, Paragraph 1 of the Energy Act 
b) Production processes of drinking water pursuant to Article 3, Paragraph 1 of 
the Drinking Water Management Act  
c) Establishment and operation of a system for providing and using health care 
services pursuant to Article 3, Paragraph 1 of the Framework Act on Health 
and Medical Services  
d) Development and use of medical devices pursuant to Article 2, Paragraph 1 of 
the Medical Devices Act and digital medical devices pursuant to Article 2, 
Paragraph 2 of the Digital Medical Products Act  
e) Safe management and operation of nuclear materials and facilities pursuant to 
Article 2, Paragraph 1, Subparagraphs 1 and 2 of the Act on Nuclear Facility 
Physical Protection and Radiological Emergencies 
f) Analysis and utilization of biometric information (referring to personal 
information regarding physical, physiological, and behavioral characteristics 
that can identify individuals, such as face, fingerprints, iris, and palm veins) for 
criminal investigations or arrest operations  
g) Judgments or evaluations that have a significant impact on the rights and 
obligations of an individual, such as employment and loan assessments  
h) Major operations and management of transportation conveyances, 
 3 
transportation facilities, and transportation systems pursuant to Article 2, 
Paragraphs 1 through 3 of the Traffic Safety Act  
i) Decision-making by the national and local governments, and public 
institutions pursuant to Article 4 of the Act on the Operation of Public 
Institutions (hereinafter the “National Institutions”) that affect the public, such 
as qualification verification and determination, or expense collection necessary 
for providing public services  
j) Student assessment in early childhood education, elementary education, and 
secondary education pursuant to Article 9, Paragraph 1 of the Basic Education 
Act  
k) Other areas that have a significant impact on the protection of human life, 
physical safety, and basic human rights, as prescribed by Presidential Decree.  
5. “Generative AI” refers to an AI system that generates text, sound, images, video, 
and various other outputs by imitating the structure and characteristics of input 
data (referring to data pursuant to Article 2, Paragraph 1 of the Framework Act on 
Promotion of Data Industry and Data Utilization).  
6. “AI Industry” refers to industries that develop, manufacture, produce, or distribute 
products utilizing AI or AI technology (hereinafter “AI products”) or that provide 
related services (hereinafter “AI services”).  
7. “AI Business Operator” refers to any corporation, organization, individual, or 
government agency engaged in business related to the AI industry, and falls 
under any of the following categories:  
a) AI Developer: An individual or entity that develops and provides AI  
b) AI-using Business Operator: An individual or entity that provides AI products 
or services using AI provided by a business operator in item (a).  
8. “User” refers to anyone receiving AI products or services.  
9. “Affected Person” refers to anyone whose life, physical safety, or basic human 
rights are significantly impacted by AI products or services.  
10. “AI Society” refers to a society that creates value and drives development 
through AI across all fields, to include industry, economy, society, culture, and 
administration.  
11. “AI Ethics” refers to ethical standards that should be observed by all members of 
society in all areas related to development, provision, and use of AI, based on 
respect for human dignity, and aiming to protect people’s rights, lives, and 
property to realize a safe and trustworthy AI society.  
 4 
[Enforcement date: January 24, 2026] The part concerning digital medical devices in Article 2, 
Paragraph 4, Subparagraph d  
Article 3 (Basic Principles and Obligations of the Nation)  
1) AI technology and the AI industry shall be developed in a direction that 
promotes safety and reliability to improve people’s quality of life.  
2) Affected persons shall be provided with a clear and meaningful explanation of 
the key criteria and principles, used to derive the final AI outcomes, to the extent 
technically and reasonably possible.  
3) National and local government organizations shall respect the spirit of 
creativity of AI business operators and strive to create a safe environment for the 
use of AI.  
4) National and local government organizations shall devise policies to ensure 
that all people can adapt stably to the changes brought about by AI in all areas, 
including social, economic, cultural, and daily life.  
Article 4 (Scope of Application) 
1) This Act shall apply to acts conducted abroad that affect the domestic market 
or users in the Republic of Korea.  
2) This Act shall not apply to AI developed and used solely for national defense 
or national security purposes, as prescribed by Presidential Decree.  
Article 5 (Relationship with Other Laws) 
1) Unless other laws provide special provisions regarding AI, AI technology, the 
AI industry, and AI society (hereinafter “AI”), the provisions of this Act shall apply.  
2) When enacting or amending other laws regarding AI, such laws shall be 
aligned with the purposes of this Act.  
Chapter 2 Promotion system for Sound Development of AI and Establishment of a 
Foundation of Trust  
Article 6 (Establishment of the AI Basic Plan) 
1) Every three years, the Minister of Science and ICT, after consulting with the 
heads of relevant central administrative agencies and local governments, shall 
establish, amend, and implement the AI basic plan (hereinafter the “Basic Plan”) to 
promote AI technology and the AI industry and strengthen national 
competitiveness, subject to deliberation and resolution by the National AI 
Committee pursuant to Article 7. However, minor amendments to the Basic Plan 
 5 
prescribed by Presidential Decree are exempt from this requirement.  
2) The Basic Plan shall include the following matters:  
1. Basic direction and strategy for AI policies.  
2. Matters regarding the training of professional talent for the systematic 
development of the AI industry, and the establishment of a foundation for 
promoting the development and utilization of AI  
3. Legal, institutional, and cultural measures for implementing a sound AI society, 
including the spread of AI ethics  
4. Securing financial resources and investment directions for AI technology 
development and AI industry development  
5. Measures for establishing a foundation of trust, ensuring the fairness, 
transparency, accountability, and safety of AI  
6. Matters regarding the direction of development of AI technology, and 
corresponding changes and responses in areas of society, such as education, 
labor, economy, and culture  
7. Other matters deemed necessary by the Minister of Science and ICT for promoting 
AI technology and the AI industry, international cooperation, and strengthening 
national competitiveness  
3) When establishing the Basic Plan, the Minister of Science and ICT shall 
consider the comprehensive plan under Article 6, Paragraph 1 and the 
implementation plan under Article 7, Paragraph 1 of the Framework Act on 
Intelligent Informatization.  
4) The Minister of Science and ICT may request data from the heads of relevant 
central administrative agencies, local governments, and public institutions (referring 
to public institutions under Article 2, Paragraph 16 of the Framework Act on 
Intelligent Informatization; hereinafter the same) for the establishment of the Basic 
Plan. Unless there are special circumstances, the head of the institution requested 
to submit data shall comply.  
5) The Basic Plan shall be considered as the sector-specific implementation plan 
for AI and the AI industry pursuant to Article 13, Paragraph 1 of the Framework Act 
on Intelligent Informatization.  
6) The heads of relevant central administrative agencies and local governments 
shall consider the Basic Plan when developing and executing major policies under 
their jurisdiction.  
 6 
7) Matters necessary for the establishment, amendment, and implementation of 
the Basic Plan shall be prescribed by Presidential Decree.  
Article 7 (National AI Committee) 
1) The National AI Committee (hereinafter “the Committee”) shall be established 
under the President to deliberate and resolve matters regarding major policies for 
the development of AI and establishment of a trust-based foundation.  
2) The Committee shall be composed of no more than 45 members, including one 
chairperson and one vice chairperson. A majority of the Committee members shall 
be members under Paragraph 4, Subparagraph 4, and shall not be composed solely 
of one gender.  
3) The President shall serve as the Committee’s chairperson, and the vice 
chairperson shall be appointed by the President from among the members falling 
under Paragraph 4, Subparagraph 4.  
4) The Committee’s members shall include the following persons:  
1. Heads of the relevant central administrative agencies as prescribed by 
Presidential Decree  
2. Deputy director in charge of AI affairs at the Office of National Security  
3. The senior secretary assisting with AI affairs in the Office of the President  
4. Persons with extensive expertise and experience in AI appointed by the President  
5) The chairperson represents the Committee and oversees its affairs.  
6) The chairperson may have the vice chairperson act on their behalf, as 
necessary.  
7) The term of office for members under Paragraph 4, Subparagraph 4 shall be 
two years, with a two-term limit.  
8) The Committee shall have one secretary, who shall be a member under 
Paragraph 4, Subparagraph 3.  
9) Committee members shall not disclose confidential information learned in the 
course of their duties nor use it for any purpose other than their official duties, 
except as otherwise provided by law.  
10) The Committee’s chairperson shall convene and preside over meetings of the 
Committee.  
11) Committee meetings shall be held with attendance of a majority of members 
and resolutions shall be made with the approval of a majority of attending 
 7 
members.  
12) A support team shall be established under the Committee to assist with its 
work and operations.  
13) The Committee shall subsist for five years from the date this Act takes effect.  
14) Matters concerning the composition and operation of the Committee and its 
support team under Paragraph 12 shall be prescribed by Presidential Decree.  
Article 8 (Functions of the Committee) 
1) The Committee shall deliberate and resolve the following matters:  
1. Establishment, amendment, and implementation of the Basic Plan  
2. AI-related policy matters  
3. Establishment of strategies for AI research and development (R&D)  
4. Establishment of investment strategies related to AI  
5. Identification and improvement of regulations that hinder AI industry 
development and competitiveness  
6. Plans for expanding infrastructure, such as AI data centers as defined in Article 
40, Paragraph 1 of the Framework Act on Intelligent Informatization  
7. Promotion of AI utilization in industrial sectors such as manufacturing, services, 
and the public sector  
8. International cooperation regarding the establishment of AI-related international 
norms  
9. Recommendations or expression of opinions pursuant to Paragraph 2  
10.  Regulation of high-impact AI  
11.  Social changes and policy responses related to high-impact AI  
12.  Matters designated by this Act or other laws for Committee deliberation  
13.  Other matters deemed necessary by the chairperson to be brought before a 
Committee meeting  
2) The Committee may express recommendations or opinions to heads of National 
Institutions, AI business operators, and others, regarding the correct use of AI, 
implementation of AI ethics, and AI technology safety and reliability.  
3) When the Committee expresses recommendations or opinions pursuant to 
Paragraph 2 to the heads of National Institutions for legal or institutional 
improvements, or the establishment of practical measures, the heads of the 
 8 
relevant National Institutions shall develop and implement measures accordingly.  
Article 9 (Recusal, Avoidance, and Disqualification of Members) 
1) To ensure fairness, a Committee member shall be disqualified from the 
deliberation and resolution of a specific agenda if any of the following applies:  
1. If the member, or the corporation or organization to which the member belongs, 
has a direct interest in the agenda  
2. If a member's family (a family member as defined in Article 779 of the Civil Act) is 
an interested party  
2) Any party to the deliberation (including executives and employees of 
corporations, or organizations) may file a challenge if there are circumstances 
where it is difficult to expect a fair performance of duties by a Committee member. 
If such a challenge is deemed valid, the Committee shall decide to exclude that 
member by resolution.  
3) If a member falls under Paragraph 1 or 2, he or she shall voluntarily recuse 
themself from the deliberation on the relevant agenda.  
Article 10 (Subcommittees) 
1) The Committee may establish subcommittees by field of expertise as necessary 
to perform the Committee’s work.  
2) The Committee may establish special committees as necessary to address 
specific AI-related issues.  
3) The Committee may establish an advisory panel of experts for professional 
review of AI-related matters.  
4) Matters necessary for the composition and operation of subcommittees, special 
committees, and advisory panels shall be prescribed by Presidential Decree.  
Article 11 (AI Policy Center) 
1) The Minister of Science and ICT may designate an AI Policy Center (hereinafter 
the “Center”) to comprehensively perform tasks necessary for the development of 
AI policy, and the establishment and dissemination of international norms.  
2) The Center shall carry out the following projects:  
1. Technical support necessary for the establishment and implementation of the 
Basic Plan  
2. Technical support for the development and implementation of AI-related policies 
and projects  
 9 
3. Investigation and analysis of how AI impacts society, economy, culture, and 
people's daily lives  
4. Investigation and research on laws, systems, and forecasting of social and cultural 
changes to support the development of AI policies and AI technology  
5. Tasks entrusted by other laws or delegated by relevant agencies  
6. Other tasks entrusted by the heads of National Institutions  
3) Other matters necessary for the establishment and operation of the Center 
shall be prescribed by Presidential Decree.  
Article 12 (AI Safety Research Institute) 
1) The Minister of Science and ICT may operate an AI Safety Research Institute 
(hereinafter the “Safety Research Institute”) to perform tasks professionally and 
efficiently to secure AI safety (hereinafter “AI Safety”) protecting people's lives, 
physical well-being, property, etc. from risks associated with AI and maintaining a 
foundation of trust in an AI society.  
2) The Safety Research Institute shall perform the following tasks:  
1. Definition and analysis of AI safety-related risks  
2. Research on AI safety policy  
3. Research on AI safety evaluation criteria and methods  
4. Research on AI safety technologies and standardization  
5. International exchange and cooperation related to AI safety  
6. Support for securing the safety of AI systems pursuant to Article 32  
7. Other tasks related to AI safety as prescribed by Presidential Decree  
3) The government may, within the scope of its budget, provide funding as 
necessary for the operation of the Safety Research Institute and the implementation 
of its projects.  
4) Other necessary matters for the operation of the Safety Research Institute shall 
be prescribed by Presidential Decree.  
Chapter 3 AI Technology and Industry Development  
Section 1 Establishment of AI Industry Infrastructure  
Article 13 (Support for Development and Safe Use of AI Technology) 
1) The government may support the following projects to promote the 
 10 
development of AI technology:  
1. Investigation of domestic and foreign AI technology trends, levels, and related 
systems 
2. R&D, testing, evaluation, and utilization of AI technology, or utilization of 
advanced technology  
3. Support for the practical application and dissemination, transfer, and 
commercialization of AI technology  
4. Smooth distribution of information and industry-academia cooperation for 
implementing AI technology  
5. Other projects related to AI technology R&D and investigation as prescribed by 
Presidential Decree  
2) The government may support the following projects to ensure the safe and 
convenient use of AI technology:  
1. R&D projects to implement the measures of Article 60, Paragraph 1 of the 
Framework Act on Intelligent Informatization in AI technology  
2. Support for research and dissemination of technologies that implement the 
emergency shutdown function in AI products or services pursuant to Article 60, 
Paragraph 3 of the Framework Act on Intelligent Informatization  
3. R&D and dissemination of design standards and technologies suitable for privacy 
protection pursuant to Article 61, Paragraph 2 of the Framework Act on 
Intelligent Informatization in AI technology development  
4. R&D projects for AI technology implementation and application of social impact 
assessment pursuant to Article 56, Paragraph 1 of the Framework Act on 
Intelligent Informatization  
5. R&D and dissemination of technologies or standards to ensure AI is developed 
and used to respect human dignity and fundamental rights  
6. Education and promotion projects to improve awareness of safe AI development 
and use, and to create a safe environment, and proper usage methods  
7. Other necessary projects to protect the fundamental rights, and the physical and 
property safety, of people in AI development and use  
3) The government shall make the results of the projects under Paragraph 2 
publicly available and easily accessible to anyone. Where necessary to protect 
developers, a protection period may be designated during which technology usage 
fees may be collected or other protective measures may be taken.  
 11 
Article 14 (Standardization of AI Technology) 
1) The government may promote the following projects to standardize AI 
technology, learning data pursuant to Article 15, Paragraph 1, and AI safety and 
reliability.  
1. Establishment, amendment, and abolition of standards related to AI technology 
and their dissemination  
2. Investigation and R&D of domestic and international standards for AI technology  
3. Other standardization projects related to AI technology  
2) The government may announce standards established pursuant to Paragraph 
1, Subparagraph 1 and recommend their compliance to relevant business 
operators.  
3) The government may provide necessary support for private sector 
standardization projects related to AI technology.  
4) The government shall maintain and strengthen cooperation systems with 
international standards organizations or institutions involved with AI technology 
standards.  
5) Other matters necessary for the promotion and support of standardization 
projects pursuant to Paragraphs 1 and 3 shall be prescribed by Presidential Decree.  
Article 15 (Establishment of Policies Related to AI Learning Data) 
1) The Minister of Science and ICT shall, in consultation with the heads of relevant 
central administrative agencies, promote necessary measures to facilitate the 
production, collection, management, distribution, utilization of data used for AI 
development and utilization (hereinafter “learning data”).  
2) The government may select and support projects to facilitate learning data 
production, collection, management, distribution, and utilization, within budget 
limits.  
3) The government may implement learning data generation projects to produce 
and provide various learning data to promote the production, collection, 
management, distribution, and utilization of learning data.  
4) The Minister of Science and ICT shall build and manage an integrated provision 
system (hereinafter the “integrated provision system”) that can provide and manage 
learning data from the efficient execution of learning data construction projects and 
provide it for free use by the private sector.  
5) The Minister of Science and ICT may collect fees from users of the integrated 
 12 
provision system.  
6) Other necessary matters for selecting and supporting projects pursuant to 
Paragraph 2, implementation of learning data construction projects, building and 
managing the integrated provision system, and collecting fees pursuant to 
Paragraph 5 shall be prescribed by Presidential Decree.  
Section 2 AI Technology Development and Industry Revitalization  
Article 16 (Support for Introduction and Utilization of AI Technology) 
1) National and local government organizations may, as necessary, provide the 
following support to promote the introduction and expand utilization of AI 
technology by companies and public institutions.  
1. Support for the development and dissemination of AI technology, products, or 
services of R&D results  
2. Consulting support for companies and public institutions intending to introduce 
and utilize AI technology  
3. Education support on AI technology introduction and utilization to executives and 
employees of small- and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) pursuant to Article 2, 
Paragraph 1 of the Framework Act on Small- and Medium-Sized Enterprises 
(SME Framework Act), venture businesses pursuant to Article 2, Paragraph 1 of 
the Special Act on the Promotion of Venture Businesses, and micro-sized 
enterprises pursuant to Article 2, Paragraph 1 of the SME Framework Act 
4. Financial support for SMEs to introduce and utilize AI technology  
5. Other matters prescribed by Presidential Decree to promote the introduction and 
utilization of AI technology by enterprises and public institutions  
2) Matters necessary for the support pursuant to Paragraph 1 shall be prescribed 
by Presidential Decree.  
Article 17 (Special Support for SMEs) 
1) When implementing various support policies under this act for AI technology 
and industry, SMEs shall be given priority consideration.  
2) The government shall strive to revitalize participation by SMEs in the AI 
industry and shall reflect such considerations in the Framework Act on the 
Development of Artificial Intelligence and Establishment of Trust (“the AI 
Framework Act”).  
3) The Minister of Science and ICT may support the implementation of measures 
pursuant to Article 34 and impact assessment pursuant to Article 35 by SMEs to 
 13 
ensure AI safety and reliability.  
Article 18 (Promotion of Startups) 
1) The government may promote the following projects to promote startups in the 
AI industry:  
1. Discovering, fostering, and supporting AI startups  
2. Education and training for AI startup industry promotion  
3. Commercialization support for outstanding AI technology by professionals 
pursuant to Article 21  
4. Valuation of AI technology and financial support for startup funds  
5. Provision of AI-related research and technology development results  
6. Fostering of institutions and organizations supporting startups in the AI industry  
7. Other projects necessary to promote startups in the AI industry  
2) Local governments may contribute to or invest in public institutions or 
organizations supporting startups in the AI industry.  
Article 19 (Promotion of AI Convergence) 
1) The government shall establish and promote necessary measures for the 
convergence of the AI industry with other industries and enhance the use of AI 
across all sectors.  
2) The government may, when necessary, prioritize and promote R&D projects 
related to AI convergence products and services in national R&D projects pursuant 
to the National Research and Development Innovation Act, to support the 
development of AI convergence products and services.  
3) The government shall actively support the smooth implementation of 
temporary permits pursuant to Article 37, and regulatory sandboxes for AI-
converged products and services under Article 38, Paragraph 2 of the Special Act 
on Promotion of Information, Communications Technology, and Vitalization of 
Convergence Thereof.  
Article 20 (Institutional Improvements, etc.) 
1) The government shall strive to improve related institutions, including the 
development of laws and regulations, to develop the AI industry and establish a 
trust-based foundation.  
2) The government may provide the necessary administrative and financial 
 14 
support for the research of relevant laws and systems, and the collection of 
opinions from various sectors of society to promote institutional improvements 
under Paragraph 1.  
Article 21 (Securing Expert Talents) 
1) The Minister of Science and ICT shall train and support AI and AI technology 
expert talents in accordance with the measures pursuant to Article 23, Paragraph 1 
of the Framework Act on Intelligent Informatization for the development of AI 
technology and advancement of the AI industry.  
2) The government may implement the following policies to recruit overseas 
expert talents in AI and AI technology.  
1. Research and analysis on AI and AI technology expert talents from overseas 
universities, research institutes, and companies.  
2. Establishing an international network to attract overseas expert talents  
3. Support for domestic employment of overseas expert talents  
4. Support for the overseas expansion of domestic AI research institutes and for 
attracting overseas AI research institutes to the domestic market  
5. Support for attracting international AI and AI technology organizations and events 
to the domestic market  
6. Other measures necessary to secure overseas expert talent  
Article 22 (Support for International Cooperation and Market Expansion) 
1) The government shall identify international AI trends and promote international 
cooperation.  
2) To strengthen AI industry competitiveness and promote overseas market entry, 
the government may provide the following support to individuals, companies, and 
organizations engaged in the AI industry.  
1. International exchange of information, technology, and talent related to the AI 
industry  
2. Collection, analysis, and provision of information on overseas expansion of the AI 
industry  
3. Joint R&D  and international standardization of AI technology, products, or 
services between countries  
4. Attraction of foreign capital investment in the AI industry  
5. Promotion and marketing through participation in overseas AI academic 
 15 
conferences and exhibitions 
6. Establishment of sales, distribution, and cooperation networks for AI product and 
service exports 
7. Keeping abreast of international trends in AI ethics and international cooperation  
8. Other necessary measures for strengthening AI industry competitiveness and 
overseas market expansion  
3) In order to efficiently carry out the support pursuant to each Subparagraph of 
Paragraph 2, the government may entrust or have public institutions or other 
organizations act on its behalf as prescribed by presidential decree, and may 
subsidize the necessary expenses.  
Article 23 (Designation of AI Clusters, etc.) 
1) National and local governments may promote the functional, physical, and 
regional integration of companies, institutions, or organizations conducting R&D of 
AI and AI technology to promote the AI industry and strengthen AI 
competitiveness, development and utilization.  
2) National and local governments may designate AI clusters (hereinafter “AI 
clusters”) and provide administrative, financial, and technical support, and if 
necessary, facilitate clustering pursuant to paragraph 1 as prescribed by 
Presidential Decree.  
3) National and local governments may revoke the designation of an AI cluster in 
any of the following cases. However, if the case falls under Subparagraph 1, the 
designation must be revoked.  
1. If the designation was obtained by false or other illegal means  
2. If the head of the national or local government that designated the AI cluster 
deems it difficult for the AI cluster to achieve its intended purpose  
4) The government may establish or designate a dedicated institution to 
comprehensively support related tasks to effectively achieve establishment of the 
cluster in the region pursuant to Paragraph 1.  
5) The government may contribute or subsidize all or part of the expenses 
necessary for operating and performing tasks of the dedicated institution pursuant 
to Paragraph 4.  
6) Other necessary matters for the designation and revocation of AI clusters and 
for the establishment or designation of the dedicated institution pursuant to 
Paragraph 4 shall be prescribed by Presidential Decree.  
 16 
Article 24 (Establishment of AI Demonstration Infrastructure, etc.) 
1) National and local governments may build and operate facilities, equipment, 
and installations (hereinafter “demonstration infrastructure”), necessary for testing 
or evaluation, or to support demonstration, performance testing, verification and 
certification, pursuant to Article 30 (hereinafter “demonstration testing”) of 
technologies developed or acquired by AI business operators.  
2) National and local governments may, as prescribed by Presidential Decree, 
open the demonstration infrastructure held by institutions to AI business operators 
to promote demonstration testing, etc.  
3) Other necessary matters for building, operating, and opening the 
demonstration infrastructure shall be prescribed by Presidential Decree.  
Article 25 (Promotion of AI Data Center-Related Policies) 
1) The government shall promote necessary policies to advance the 
establishment and operation of data centers used for AI development and 
utilization (hereinafter “AI data centers”).  
2) The government may perform the following tasks to promote policies pursuant 
to Paragraph 1.  
1. Administrative and financial support necessary for the establishment and 
operation of AI data centers  
2. Support for the use of AI data centers by SMEs, research institutes, etc.  
3. Support for balanced regional development of AI-related infrastructure facilities, 
including AI data centers  
Article 26 (Establishment of the Korea AI Promotion Association) 
1) Persons engaged in research and work related to AI may establish the Korean 
AI Promotion Association (hereinafter the "Association") or be designated as an 
association with the Minister of Science and ICT's approval, as prescribed by 
Presidential Decree, to promote AI development and use, advance the AI industry 
and technology, and provide AI education and propaganda.  
2) The Association shall be a corporation.  
3) The Association shall perform the following tasks: 
1. Promotion, distribution, and usage of AI technology, products, or services  
2. Surveys and statistics on the current state of AI  
3. Establishment and operation of shared facilities for AI business operators, and 
 17 
talent training and cultivation  
4. Support for overseas expansion of AI business operators and AI talents  
5. Education and promotion of the development and use of safe and reliable AI  
6. Projects entrusted to the Association pursuant to this Act or other laws  
7. Other projects necessary to achieve the purpose of the Association’s 
establishment as stipulated in the Articles of Incorporation  
4) National and local governments may finance the Association’s business or 
subsidize the expenses necessary for its operation within the scope of the budget, if 
necessary for the development of the AI industry and the establishment of a 
foundation of trust.  
5) The qualifications of the Association’s members and its executives, and the 
Association’s operations, shall be stipulated in the Articles of Incorporation, and 
other matters to be included therein shall be prescribed by Presidential Decree.  
6) When the Minister of Science and ICT grants approval pursuant to Paragraph 
1, it shall be publicly announced.  
7) Except as otherwise prescribed in this Act, the provisions of the Civil Act 
regarding incorporated associations shall apply mutatis mutandis to the 
Association.  
Chapter 4 Ensuring AI Ethics and Reliability 
Article 27 (AI Ethical Principles) 
1) The government may establish and announce AI ethics principles (hereinafter 
“ethics principles”), as prescribed by Presidential Decree to promote the distribution 
of AI ethics, including the following:  
1. Safety and reliability to prevent harm to human life and physical and mental 
health during the development and use of AI  
2. Ensuring that products and services powered by AI technology are freely and 
conveniently accessible by everyone  
3. AI development and usage to contribute to human well-being and prosperity  
2) The Minister of Science and ICT shall gather opinions from all sectors of society 
to develop practical measures to ensure the implementation of these ethical 
principles by all the parties involved in AI development and usage, and must 
publicize, promote, and educate about these measures.  
3) When the head of a central administrative agency or local government 
 18 
establishes or amends AI ethics standards (referring to laws, standards, or 
guidelines related to AI ethics, regardless of their name or form), the Minister of 
Science and ICT may express recommendations or opinions regarding their 
connection and consistency with ethical principles and practical measures pursuant 
to Paragraph (2).  
Article 28 (Establishment of Private Autonomous AI Ethics Committees) 
1) The following institutions or organizations may establish a private autonomous 
AI ethics committee (hereinafter “private autonomous committee”) to comply with 
the ethical principles.  
1. Educational institutions and research centers where individuals engaged in AI 
technology R&D are affiliated  
2. AI business operators  
3. Other AI technology-related institutions as prescribed by Presidential Decree  
2) The private autonomous committee shall independently perform the following 
tasks: 
1. Ensure compliance with ethical principles in AI technology R&D and utilization  
2. Investigation and research on securing the safety of AI technology R&D and 
utilization, and preventing human rights violations  
3. Investigation and supervision of the procedures and results of AI technology R&D 
and utilization  
4. Education on ethical principles for researchers and employees of the relevant 
institution or organization  
5. Preparation of field-specific AI ethical guidelines suitable for AI technology R&D 
and utilization  
6. Other tasks necessary for the implementation of ethical principles  
3) Matters necessary for the composition, operation, of the private autonomous 
committee shall be determined autonomously by the relevant institution or 
organization. However, the committee shall not be composed exclusively of one 
gender. It shall include individuals with the experience and knowledge to assess 
social and ethical validity, and individuals not affiliated with the institution or 
organization.  
4) The Minister of Science and ICT may prepare and disseminate standard 
guidelines to ensure the fair and neutral composition and operation of private 
autonomous committees.  
 19 
Article 29 (Preparation of Policies for Establishing a Foundation of Trust for AI) 
The government shall establish the following policies to minimize the potential risks of 
AI on citizens’ lives and establish a foundation of trust for the safe use of AI.  
1. Creation of a safe and reliable AI usage environment  
2. Forecasting and prediction on the impact of AI usage on citizens’ daily lives and 
on the maintenance of related laws and regulations  
3. Support for the development and dissemination of safety and certification 
technologies to ensure the safety and reliability of AI  
4. Education and promotion of the realization of a safe and trustworthy AI society 
and the practice of AI ethics  
5. Support for the establishment and implementation of autonomous regulations 
related to safety and reliability by AI business operators  
6. Support and dissemination of private-sector activities such as autonomous 
cooperation, the establishment of ethical guidelines for the promotion of safety 
and reliability of AI by organizations related to AI, and composed of AI business 
operators or users (hereinafter “Organizations”)  
7. Other matters prescribed by Presidential Decree to ensure the safety and 
reliability of AI  
Article 30 (Support for AI Safety, Reliability, Verification and Certification) 
1) The Minister of Science and ICT may implement the following projects to 
support validation and certification activities (hereinafter “verification and 
certification”) autonomously promoted by organizations to ensure the safety and 
reliability of AI.  
1. Dissemination of guidelines for AI development  
2. Support for research on verification and certification  
3. Support for the establishment and operation of equipment and systems used for 
verification and certification  
4. Support for the talent training necessary for verification and certification  
5. Other matters prescribed by Presidential Decree to support verification and 
certification.  
2) The Minister of Science and ICT may provide related information or 
administrative and financial support to SMEs seeking verification and certification, 
as prescribed by Presidential Decree.  
 20 
3) AI business operators shall strive to obtain verification and certification prior to 
providing high-impact AI.  
4) When National Institutions intend to use high-impact AI, they should prioritize 
products or services based on AI that have received verification and certification.  
Article 31 (Obligation to Ensure AI Transparency) 
1) AI business operators providing products or services using high-impact AI or 
generative artificial intelligence (GenAI) shall notify users in advance that the 
product or service is AI-based.  
2) When providing GenAI products and services, AI business operators shall 
notify users in advance that such products and services are GenAI-generated.  
3) AI business operators shall clearly notify or indicate to users or indicate clearly 
when virtual sounds, images, or videos are AI-generated, and may be difficult to 
distinguish from authentic ones. In such case, if the outcome is part of an artistic or 
creative work, the notification or indication may be made in a manner that does not 
hinder its exhibition or enjoyment.  
4) Other necessary matters regarding the advance notification pursuant to 
Paragraphs 1, the indication pursuant to Paragraph (2), and the exceptions 
notification methods pursuant to Paragraph 3 shall be prescribed by Presidential 
Decree.  
Article 32 (Obligation to Ensure AI Safety) 
1) AI business operators shall implement the following measures to ensure the 
safety of AI systems in which the cumulative computing amount used for learning 
meets or exceeds the standards prescribed by Presidential Decree.  
1. Identification, assessment, and mitigation of risks throughout the entire AI 
lifecycle  
2. Building of a risk management system to monitor and respond to AI-related 
safety incidents  
2) AI business operators shall submit the results of implementing the measures 
pursuant to each Subparagraphs of Paragraph 1 to the Minister of Science and ICT.  
3) The Minister of Science and ICT shall determine and announce the detailed 
guidelines for implementing measures pursuant to the Subparagraphs of Paragraph 
1 and for submitting the results pursuant to Paragraph (2).  
Article 33 (Confirmation of High-Impact AI) 
1) AI business operators providing AI-based products or services must review in 
 21 
advance whether the AI in question qualifies as high-impact AI. If necessary, they 
may request confirmation from the Minister of Science and ICT as to whether the AI 
qualifies as high-impact .  
2) The Minister of Science and ICT shall confirm whether such AI qualifies as 
high-impact AI upon request, pursuant to Paragraph 1, and may establish a 
specialized committee to receive relevant advice if necessary.  
3) The Minister of Science and ICT may establish and distribute guidelines 
concerning the criteria and examples of high-impact AI.  
4) Other necessary matters for the confirmation procedures pursuant to 
Paragraph 1 shall be prescribed by Presidential Decree.  
Article 34 (High-Impact AI Business Operators' Responsibilities) 
1) AI business operators providing high-impact AI or AI-based products and 
services must implement the following measures as prescribed by presidential 
decree to ensure the safety and reliability of the high-impact AI .  
1. Establishment and operation of a risk management plan  
2. To the extent that it is technically feasible, establish and implement a plan to 
provide explanations for AI-generated outputs, including the key criteria used to 
derive such outputs, and an overview of the learning data used in the 
development and utilization of AI  
3. Establishment and operation of user protection measures  
4. Human management and supervision of high-impact AI  
5. Preparation and storage of documents that demonstrate measures taken to 
ensure AI safety and reliability.  
6. Other matters deliberated and resolved upon by the Committee to ensure the 
safety and reliability of high-impact AI  
2) The Minister of Science and ICT may establish and announce specific details of 
the measures pursuant to Subparagraphs of Paragraph 1, and recommend AI 
business operators comply with them.  
3) If an AI business operator implements equivalent measures pursuant to 
Subparagraphs of Paragraph 1, in accordance with the laws and regulations as 
prescribed by Presidential Decree, they shall be deemed to have implemented the 
measures pursuant to Paragraph 1.  
Article 35 (Impact Assessment of High-Impact AI) 
 22 
1) AI business operators providing products or services using high-impact AI shall 
make efforts to assess in advance the impact on basic human rights (hereinafter 
referred to as “impact assessment”).  
2) When national institutions intend to use high-impact AI products or services, 
they must prioritize products or services that have undergone an impact 
assessment.  
3) Other necessary matters concerning the specific content and methods of the 
impact assessments shall be prescribed by Presidential Decree.  
Article 36 (Designation of a Domestic Representative) 
1) AI business operators without an address or place of business in the Republic 
of Korea, which meet certain user and revenue thresholds defined by Presidential 
Decree, must appoint a domestic representative (hereinafter referred to as 
“domestic representative”) in writing and report it to the Minister of Science and 
ICT.  
1. Submission of implementation results pursuant to Article 32, Paragraph 2  
2. Request for confirmation of qualification as high-impact AI pursuant to Article 33, 
Paragraph 1  
3. Support necessary for implementing safety and reliability measures pursuant to 
Subparagraphs of Article 34, Paragraph 1 (including inspecting the currency and 
accuracy of the documents pursuant to Subparagraph 5 of the same Paragraph)  
2) The domestic representative shall have an address or place of business in the 
Republic of Korea.  
3) If the domestic representative violates this Act under Subparagraphs of 
Paragraph 1, the AI business operator that designated the domestic representative 
shall be held responsible.  
Chapter 5 Supplementary Provisions  
Article 37 (Expansion of Financial Resources for the Promotion of the AI 
Industry) 
1) The government must establish measures to secure the necessary financial 
resources continuously and stably to effectively promote the Basic Plan and 
policies pursuant to this Act.  
2) The Minister of Science and ICT may, when necessary, recommend public 
institutions provide support for projects related to the promotion of the AI industry.  
 23 
3) National and local governments shall take necessary measures to enable the 
private sector, including corporations, to actively invest in projects related to the 
promotion of the AI industry.  
4) National and local governments shall endeavor to efficiently leverage 
investment resources by comprehensively considering development stages of the 
AI industry.  
Article 38 (Practical Surveys, Statistics and Indicators Preparation) 
1) The Minister of Science and ICT must, in consultation with the commissioner of 
Statistics Korea, compile, manage, and publish fact-finding surveys, statistics, and 
indicators on domestic and international AI for the planning, establishment, and 
promotion of policies and projects related to AI in connection with statistics 
pursuant to Article 26, Paragraph 2 of the Framework Act on Science and 
Technology (S&T).  
2) The Minister of Science and ICT may request cooperation, such as the 
submission of data, from the heads of relevant central administrative agencies, 
local governments, and public institutions for the preparation of statistics and 
indicators pursuant to Paragraph 1. In such cases, the head of the institution 
requested to cooperate shall comply therewith unless there are extraordinary 
circumstances. 
3) Other matters necessary for the fact-finding surveys and the preparation, 
management, and publication of statistics and indicators under Paragraph 1 shall 
be prescribed by Presidential Decree.  
Article 39 (Delegation and Entrustment of Authority and Duties) 
1) The Minister of Science and ICT or the head of the relevant central 
administrative agency may delegate part of their authority under this Act to the 
head of an affiliated agency, or to the Special City Mayor, Metropolitan City Mayor, 
Special Self-Governing City Mayor, Provincial Governor, or a Special Self-
Governing Provincial Governor (hereinafter referred to as “Mayor or Provincial 
Governor” in this Article) as prescribed by Presidential Decree. In such cases, the 
Mayor or Provincial Governor may re-delegate part of the delegated authority to a 
Mayor (including the Administrative Mayor pursuant to Article 11, Paragraph 2 of 
the Special Act on the Establishment of Jeju Special Self-Governing Province and 
the Development of Jeju Free International City), county head, or district head 
(referring to the district head of a Self-Governing district).  
2) The government may entrust the following tasks to relevant institutions or 
organizations as prescribed by Presidential Decree.  
 24 
1. Support for projects related to the development and use of AI technology 
pursuant to Article 13  
2. Selection and support of projects for the production, collection, management, 
distribution, and utilization of training data pursuant to Article 15, Paragraphs 2 
and 3, and promotion of learning data construction projects  
3. Establishment, operation, and management of an integrated provision system  
4. Matters deemed necessary by the Minister of Science and ICT for promoting 
startup activity pursuant to Article 18  
5. Support for verification and certification, pursuant to Article 30, Paragraph 2  
6. Preparation of fact-finding surveys, statistics, and indicators pursuant to Article 
38  
7. Other affairs prescribed by Presidential Decree for developing the AI industry and 
promoting AI ethics  
Article 40 (Fact-Finding Surveys) 
1) The Minister of Science and ICT may require that AI business operators submit 
relevant data or have public officials conduct necessary investigations in any of the 
following cases: 
1. In the case where violations of Article 31, Paragraphs 2 or 3, Article 32, 
Paragraphs 1 or 2, or Article 34, Paragraph 1 are discovered or there is suspicion 
of such violations.  
2. If a report or complaint is received regarding a violation of Article 31, Paragraphs 
2 or 3, Article 32, Paragraphs 1 or 2, or Article 34, Paragraph 1  
2) The Minister of Science and ICT may, if necessary, for the investigation under 
Paragraph 1, have affiliated public officials enter the offices or business premises of 
an AI business operator to investigate ledgers, documents, and other data or items. 
In this case, except for matters prescribed by this Act regarding the content, 
method, and procedures of the investigation, it shall be governed by the provisions 
set forth in the Framework Act on Administrative Investigation.  
3) If the Minister of Science and ICT deems that an AI business operator has 
violated this Act as a result of the investigation under Paragraphs 1 and 2, the 
Minister may order that the AI business operator take necessary measures to cease 
or rectify the violation.  
Article 41 (Deemed Public Officials for Application of Penal Provisions) 
 25 
1) Members of the Committee who are not public officials shall be deemed public 
officials when applying the penal provisions under Articles 129 through 132 of the 
Criminal Act.  
2) Executives and employees of institutions or organizations engaged in entrusted 
work pursuant to Article 39, Paragraph 2 shall be deemed public officials when 
applying the penal provisions under Articles 127 and 129 through 132 of the 
Criminal Act.  
Chapter 6 Penalties  
Article 42 (Punishments) A person who discloses confidential information learned 
in the course of their duties to others or uses it for purposes other than those related to 
their duties, in violation of Article 7, Paragraph 9, shall be punished by imprisonment 
for not more than three years or by a fine not exceeding 30 million won [U.S. $22,000].  
Article 43 (Administrative Fines) 
1) An administrative fine not exceeding 30 million won [U.S. $22,000] shall be 
imposed on any person who falls under any of the following Subparagraphs.  
1. A person who fails to provide notification, in violation of Article 31, Paragraph 1  
2. A person who fails to designate a domestic representative, in violation of Article 
36, Paragraph 1  
3. A person who fails to comply with a cease order or corrective order pursuant to 
Article 40, Paragraph 3  
2) The administrative fines under Paragraph 1 shall be imposed and collected by 
the Minister of Science and ICT as prescribed by Presidential Decree.  
 
Supplementary Provisions [Law No. 20676, January 21, 2025]  
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Act shall enter into force one year after the date of 
its promulgation. However, the part regarding digital medical devices in Article 2, 
Paragraph 4, Subparagraph d shall enter into force on January 24, 2026. 
Article 2 (Preparatory Actions for the Enforcement of this Act) The appointment of 
committee members, and the compositions of subcommittees, special committees, 
advisory groups, and support teams, necessary for the enforcement of this Act may be 
conducted before the enforcement of this Act. 
Article 3 (Special Provisions for Dedicated Institutions) An institution operating with 
 26 
government budgetary support to effectively establish regional clustering pursuant to 
Article 23, Paragraph 1 at the time this Act enters into force and that meets the 
requirements prescribed by Presidential Decree regarding organization and personnel 
shall be deemed to be designated as a dedicated institution under this Act, 
notwithstanding Article 23, Paragraph 4. 