FIRST SESSION  FORTY-SECOND LEGISLATURE
Bill 64 
(2021, chapter 25)
An Act to modernize legislative 
provisions as regards the protection 
of personal information
Introduced 12 June 2020  
Passed in principle 20 October 2020  
Passed 21 September 2021  
Assented to 22 September 2021
Québec Official Publisher
2021
EXPLANATORY NOTES
This Act modernizes the framework applicable to the protection 
of personal information in various Acts, including the Act respecting 
Access to documents held by public bodies and the Protection of 
personal information and the Act respecting the protection of personal 
information in the private sector.
Rules are introduced in both of those Acts concerning how public 
bodies and enterprises handle incidents affecting the confidentiality 
of personal information. Under the Act, such bodies and enterprises 
must publish governance rules regarding personal information, or 
information relating to the governance policies and practices 
regarding such information, and those that collect personal information 
through technological means must publish and disseminate a 
confidentiality policy. In addition, the Act introduces a requirement 
in those Acts to conduct a privacy impact assessment in certain 
circumstances, including regarding any project to acquire, develop 
or overhaul an information system or electronic service delivery 
system involving the collection, use, release, keeping or destruction 
of personal information.
The Act clarifies various requirements relating to the consent 
required before personal information is collected, used or released. 
A public body or an enterprise that makes a request for consent in 
writing must do so separately from any other information provided 
to the person concerned. The consent necessary for certain uses or 
releases of sensitive personal information must be given expressly. 
Furthermore, the consent of the person having parental authority or 
of the tutor must be obtained to collect, use or release personal 
information concerning a minor under 14 years of age.
In addition, the Act requires public bodies and enterprises to 
provide certain information to the person concerned when they collect 
personal information using technology that includes functions 
allowing the person concerned to be identified, located or profiled, 
or when they use personal information to render a decision based 
exclusively on an automated processing of such information. It 
establishes a person’s right to access certain computerized personal 
information concerning him or her in a structured, commonly used 
technological format or to require such information to be released 
3
to a third person. In addition, under the Act, public bodies and 
entreprises that collect personal information when offering to the 
public a technological product or service having privacy settings are 
required to ensure that those settings provide the highest level of 
confidentiality by default.
The Act amends the conditions on which public bodies and 
enterprises may release personal information without the consent of 
the persons concerned to a person or body wishing to use the 
information for study or research purposes or for the production of 
statistics. The Act also clarifies the conditions applicable to other 
releases of personal information for which the consent of the person 
concerned is not necessary, such as a release of such information 
outside Québec, or to the spouse or a close relative of a deceased 
person, or by one enterprise to another for the purpose of concluding 
a commercial transaction.
The Act clarifies the obligations of public bodies and enterprises 
regarding the keeping of personal information, and provides in 
particular for the possibility of anonymizing such information.
The Act amends the composition of the Commission d’accès à 
l’information and adjusts its functions and powers.
The Act amends the penal provisions applicable for a contravention 
of the law, in particular by raising the amount of the fines.
More specifically, the Act amends the Act respecting Access to 
documents held by public bodies and the Protection of personal 
information to set out rules regarding the establishment within public 
bodies of a committee on access to information and the protection of 
personal information.
The Act also amends the Act respecting the protection of personal 
information in the private sector to create the function of person in 
charge of the protection of personal information within enterprises , 
withdraws from those enterprises the possibility of communicating 
nominative lists without the consent of the persons concerned, and 
updates the rules governing the use of personal information for 
commercial or philanthropic prospection purposes.
The Act grants rights to a person to whom personal information 
relates, including the right to require that such information cease to 
be disseminated or that any hyperlink attached to the person’s name 
providing access to the information by a technological means be  
de-indexed or re-indexed.
4
The Act updates the obligations imposed on personal information 
agents, provides for the possibility for the Commission d’accès à 
l’information to impose monetary administrative penalties, and sets 
out the terms for recovering and claiming the amounts owing.
The Act also amends the Election Act to make the political 
parties, independent Members and independent candidates governed 
by that Act subject to certain provisions of the Act respecting the 
protection of personal information in the private sector, while 
providing for exceptions.
The Act also amends the Act to prevent and fight sexual violence 
in higher education institutions to require those institutions to 
communicate information to persons who have filed a complaint.
Lastly, the Act contains amending, transitional and final 
provisions.
LEGISLATION AMENDED BY THIS ACT:
– Act respecting Access to documents held by public bodies and the 
Protection of personal information (chapter A-2.1);
– Financial Administration Act (chapter A-6.001);
– Tax Administration Act (chapter A-6.002);
– Health Insurance Act (chapter A-29);
– Act to establish a legal framework for information technology 
(chapter C-1.1);
– Act respecting elections and referendums in municipalities 
(chapter E-2.2);
– Act respecting school elections to elect certain members of the 
boards of directors of English-language school service centres 
(chapter E-2.3);
– Election Act (chapter E-3.3);
– Act respecting the Institut de la statistique du Québec 
(chapter I-13.011);
– Act respecting La Financière agricole du Québec (chapter L-0.1);
5
– Act respecting the Ministère de l’Emploi et de la Solidarité sociale 
and the Commission des partenaires du marché du travail 
(chapter M-15.001);
– Act respecting the sectoral parameters of certain fiscal measures 
(chapter P-5.1);
– Act respecting the sharing of certain health information 
(chapter P-9.0001);
– Act to prevent and fight sexual violence in higher education 
institutions (chapter P-22.1);
– Act respecting the protection of personal information in the private 
sector (chapter P-39.1);
– Animal Health Protection Act (chapter P-42);
– Act respecting the legal publicity of enterprises (chapter P-44.1);
– Act respecting the Régie de l’assurance maladie du Québec 
(chapter R-5);
– Act respecting the Government and Public Employees Retirement 
Plan (chapter R-10);
– Act respecting occupational health and safety (chapter S-2.1);
– Public Health Act (chapter S-2.2);
– Act respecting health services and social services (chapter S-4.2);
– Act respecting health services and social services for Cree Native 
persons (chapter S-5);
– Credit Assessment Agents Act (2020, chapter 21).

Bill 64
AN ACT TO MODERNIZE LEGISLATIVE PROVISIONS AS 
REGARDS THE PROTECTION OF PERSONAL INFORMATION
THE PARLIAMENT OF QUÉBEC ENACTS AS FOLLOWS:
ACT RESPECTING ACCESS TO DOCUMENTS HELD BY PUBLIC 
BODIES AND THE PROTECTION OF PERSONAL INFORMATION
1. The Act respecting Access to documents held by public bodies and the 
Protection of personal information (chapter A-2.1) is amended by replacing 
section 8 by the following sections:
“8. The person exercising the highest authority within a public body shall 
see to ensuring that this Act is implemented and complied with within the body. 
That person shall exercise the function of person in charge of access to 
documents and the function of person in charge of the protection of personal 
information.
All or part of those functions may be delegated in writing to a member of 
the public body or of its board of directors, as the case may be, or to a member 
of the management personnel. That person must be able to exercise them 
autonomously.
Where the person exercising the highest authority within a public body does 
not exercise those functions himself, he must see to it that such exercise is 
facilitated.
The public body must, as soon as possible, notify the Commission in writing 
of the title, contact information and starting date of the person who exercises 
the function of person in charge of access to documents and those of the person 
who exercises the function of person in charge of the protection of personal 
information.
“8.1. Within a public body, a committee on access to information and the 
protection of personal information is responsible for supporting the body in 
the exercise of its responsibilities and the performance of its obligations under 
this Act. The committee shall also exercise the functions entrusted to it by 
this Act.
8
The committee is under the responsibility of the person exercising the highest 
authority within the public body or, in the case of a government department, 
of the deputy minister and, in the case of a municipality, a professional order 
or a school board, of the director general. It is composed of the person in charge 
of access to documents, the person in charge of the protection of personal 
information and any other person whose expertise is required, including, if 
applicable, the person responsible for information security and the person 
responsible for document management.
A government regulation may exempt a public body from the obligation to 
establish such a committee or modify a body’s obligations according to criteria 
it defines.”
2. Section 41.2 of the Act is amended by inserting “person or” after “to a” 
in subparagraph 3 of the first paragraph.
3. Section 43 of the Act is amended
(1) by adding the following sentence at the end of the first paragraph: “If it is 
in writing, it may be made in a technological format.”;
(2) by replacing “designated by him” in the third paragraph by “to whom 
that function has been delegated”.
4. Section 47 of the Act is amended
(1) by replacing “cannot be notified by mail but will be informed” in 
subparagraph 7 of the first paragraph by “will be notified”;
(2) by replacing “thereof by mail” in the second paragraph by “of the 
extension in writing”.
5. Section 49 of the Act is amended
(1) by replacing “by mail” in the first paragraph by “by sending it to him 
in writing”;
(2) by replacing “by mail” in the second paragraph by “in accordance with 
the first paragraph”;
(3) by replacing “by mail” and “mailed” in the fourth paragraph by “in 
writing” and “sent”, respectively.
6. Section 50 of the Act is amended by adding the following sentence at the 
end: “If an applicant so requests, the person in charge must also help him 
understand the decision.”
9
7. The Act is amended by adding the following section before section 53:
“52.2. A public body is responsible for protecting the personal information 
it holds.”
8. Section 53 of the Act is amended by striking out “; in the case of a minor, 
consent may also be given by the person having parental authority” in 
paragraph 1.
9. The Act is amended by inserting the following section after section 53:
“53.1. Consent under this Act must be clear, free and informed and be 
given for specific purposes. It must be requested for each such purpose, in clear 
and simple language. If the request for consent is made in writing, it must be 
presented separately from any other information provided to the person 
concerned. If the person concerned so requests, assistance must be provided 
to help him understand the scope of the consent requested.
The consent of a minor under 14 years of age is given by the person having 
parental authority or by the tutor. The consent of a minor 14 years of age or 
over is given by the minor, by the person having parental authority or by 
the tutor.
Consent is valid only for the time necessary to achieve the purposes for 
which it was requested.
Consent not given in accordance with this Act is without effect.”
10. Section 54 of the Act is amended by inserting “directly or indirectly” 
before “allows”.
11. Section 55 of the Act is amended by adding the following sentence at the 
end of the first paragraph: “Nor is personal information concerning the 
performance of duties within an enterprise by the person concerned, such as 
the person’s name, title and duties, as well as the address, email address and 
telephone number of the person’s place of work.”
12. Section 57 of the Act is amended
(1) in the first paragraph,
(a) by inserting “, email address” after “address” in subparagraphs 1 and  2;
(b) by replacing “a member, the board of directors or the management 
personnel of a public body” in subparagraph 1 by “a member of a public body, 
its board of directors or its management personnel”;
(2) by inserting “person or” after “work of a” in the second paragraph.
10
13. Section 59 of the Act is amended
(1) by adding the following sentence at the end of the first paragraph: “Such 
consent must be given expressly when it concerns sensitive personal 
information.”;
(2) in the second paragraph,
(a) by replacing “tel renseignement sans le consentement de cette personne” 
in the introductory clause in the French text by “renseignement personnel sans 
le consentement de la personne concernée”;
(b) by inserting “person or” after “to a” in subparagraph 3;
(c) by striking out subparagraph 5;
(d) by replacing “61, 66, 67, 67.1, 67.2, 68 and 68.1” in subparagraph 8 by 
“61, 63.8, 66, 67, 67.1, 67.2, 67.2.1 and 68”;
(3) by adding the following paragraph at the end:
“For the purposes of this Act, personal information is sensitive if, due to its 
nature, in particular its medical, biometric or otherwise intimate nature, or the 
context of its use or release, it entails a high level of reasonable expectation of 
privacy.”
14. Section 60 of the Act is amended
(1) by replacing “must refuse to” in the third paragraph by “must not”;
(2) by striking out “following a request made” in the fourth paragraph.
15. The Act is amended by inserting the following sections after section 63.2:
“63.3. A public body must publish on its website governance rules 
regarding personal information. Such rules must be approved by its committee 
on access to information and the protection of personal information.
The rules may be in the form of a policy, directive or guide and must, in 
particular, define the roles and responsibilities of the members of its personnel 
throughout the life cycle of such information and provide a process for dealing 
with complaints regarding the protection of the information. They must include 
a description of the training and awareness activities offered by the public body 
to its personnel regarding the protection of personal information.
11
The rules must also include the protective measures to be taken in respect 
of the personal information collected or used as part of a survey, including an 
assessment of
(1) the necessity of conducting the survey; and
(2) the ethical aspect of the survey, taking into account, in particular, the 
sensitivity of the personal information collected and the purposes for which it 
is to be used.
A government regulation may determine the content and terms of those rules.
“63.4. A public body that collects personal information through 
technological means must publish on its website a confidentiality policy drafted 
in clear and simple language and disseminate it by any appropriate means to 
reach the persons concerned. It must do the same for the notice required for 
any amendment to such a policy.
A government regulation may determine the content and terms of the policy 
and the notice.
“63.5. A public body must conduct a privacy impact assessment for any 
project to acquire, develop or overhaul an information system or electronic 
service delivery system involving the collection, use, release, keeping or 
destruction of personal information.
For the purposes of such an assessment, the public body must consult its 
committee on access to information and the protection of personal information 
from the outset of the project.
The public body must also ensure that the project allows computerized 
personal information collected from the person concerned to be released to 
him in a structured, commonly used technological format.
The conduct of a privacy impact assessment under this Act must be 
proportionate to the sensitivity of the information concerned, the purposes for 
which it is to be used, the quantity and distribution of the information and the 
medium on which it is stored.
“63.6. The committee may, at any stage of a project referred to in 
section 63.5, suggest personal information protection measures applicable to 
the project, such as
(1) the appointment of a person to be responsible for implementing the 
personal information protection measures;
(2) measures to protect the personal information in any document relating 
to the project, such as specifications or a contract;
12
(3) a description of the project participants’ responsibilities with regard to 
the protection of personal information; or
(4) training activities for project participants on the protection of personal 
information.
“63.7. A public body that collects personal information when offering 
to the public a technological product or service having privacy settings must 
ensure that those settings provide the highest level of confidentiality by default, 
without any intervention by the person concerned.
The first paragraph does not apply to privacy settings for browser cookies.
“63.8. A public body that has cause to believe that a confidentiality 
incident involving personal information it holds has occurred must take 
reasonable measures to reduce the risk of injury and to prevent new incidents 
of the same  nature.
If the incident presents a risk of serious injury, the public body must promptly 
notify the Commission. It must also notify any person whose personal 
information is concerned by the incident, failing which the Commission may 
order it to do so. It may also notify any person or body that could reduce the 
risk, by releasing to the person or body only the personal information necessary 
for that purpose without the consent of the person concerned. In the latter case, 
the person in charge of the protection of personal information must record the 
release of the information.
Despite the second paragraph, a person whose personal information is 
concerned by the incident need not be notified so long as doing so could hamper 
an investigation conducted by a person or body responsible by law for the 
prevention, detection or repression of crime or statutory offences.
A government regulation may determine the content and terms of the notices 
provided for in this section.
“63.9. For the purposes of this Act, “confidentiality incident” means
(1) access not authorized by law to personal information;
(2) use not authorized by law of personal information;
(3) release not authorized by law of personal information; or
(4) loss of personal information or any other breach of the protection of 
such information.
13
“63.10. In assessing the risk of injury to a person whose personal 
information is concerned by a confidentiality incident, a public body must 
consider, in particular, the sensitivity of the information concerned, the 
anticipated consequences of its use and the likelihood that such information 
will be used for injurious purposes. The body must also consult the person in 
charge of the protection of personal information within the body.
“63.11. A public body must keep a register of confidentiality incidents. 
A government regulation may determine the content of the register.
A copy of the register must be sent to the Commission at its request.”
16. Section 64 of the Act is amended by replacing the third paragraph by 
the following paragraphs:
“The collection of information referred to in the second paragraph must be 
preceded by a privacy impact assessment and carried out under a written 
agreement that is sent to the Commission. The agreement comes into force 
30 days after it is received by the Commission.
The agreement must indicate
(1) the identity of the public body collecting the information and of the 
public body on whose behalf it is collected;
(2) the purposes for which the information is collected;
(3) the nature or type of information collected;
(4) the means by which the information is collected;
(5) the measures for ensuring the protection of the information;
(6) the intervals at which the information is collected; and
(7) the duration of the agreement.”
17. The Act is amended by inserting the following section after section 64:
“64.1. The personal information concerning a minor under 14 years of 
age may not be collected from him without the consent of the person having 
parental authority or of the tutor, unless collecting the information is clearly 
for the minor’s benefit.”
14
18. Section 65 of the Act is amended
(1) by replacing the first two paragraphs by the following paragraphs:
“Anyone who collects personal information from the person concerned on 
behalf of a public body must, when the information is collected and subsequently 
on request, inform that person
(1) of the name of the public body on whose behalf the information is 
collected;
(2) of the purposes for which the information is collected;
(3) of the means by which the information is collected;
(4) of whether the request is mandatory or optional;
(5) of the consequences for the person concerned or for the third person, as 
the case may be, for refusing to reply to the request or, if applicable, for 
withdrawing consent to the release or use of the information collected pursuant 
to an optional request; and
(6) of the rights of access and correction provided by law.
If applicable, the person concerned is informed of the name of the third 
person collecting the information on behalf of the public body, the name of the 
third persons or categories of third persons to whom it is necessary to release 
the information for the purposes referred to in subparagraph 2 of the first 
paragraph, and the possibility that the information could be released outside 
Québec.
On request, the person concerned is also informed of the personal information 
collected from him, the categories of persons who have access to the information 
within the public body, the duration of the period of time the information will 
be kept, and the contact information of the person in charge of the protection 
of personal information.”;
(2) by striking out “introduce himself and” in the third paragraph;
(3) by inserting “person or” after “by a” in the fifth paragraph.
19. The Act is amended by inserting the following sections after section 65:
“65.0.1. In addition to the information that must be provided in accordance 
with section 65, anyone who collects personal information from the person 
concerned using technology that includes functions allowing the person 
concerned to be identified, located or profiled must first inform the person
(1) of the use of such technology; and
15
(2) of the means available to activate the functions that allow a person to 
be identified, located or profiled.
“Profiling” means the collection and use of personal information to assess 
certain characteristics of a natural person, in particular for the purpose of 
analyzing that person’s work performance, economic situation, health, personal 
preferences, interests or behaviour.
“65.0.2. Any person who provides his personal information in accordance 
with section 65 consents to its use and its release for the purposes referred to 
in subparagraph  2 of the first paragraph of that section.”
20. Section 65.1 of the Act is amended
(1) by replacing the first two paragraphs by the following paragraphs:
“Unless the person concerned gives his consent, personal information may 
not be used within a public body except for the purposes for which it was 
collected. Such consent must be given expressly when it concerns sensitive 
personal information.
A public body may, however, use personal information for another purpose 
without the consent of the person concerned, but only
(1) if it is used for purposes consistent with the purposes for which it was 
collected;
(2) if it is clearly used for the benefit of the person concerned;
(3) if its use is necessary for the application of an Act in Québec, whether 
or not the law explicitly provides for its use; or
(4) if its use is necessary for study or research purposes or for the production 
of statistics, and the information is de-identified.”;
(2) by adding the following paragraphs at the end:
“For the purposes of this Act, personal information is de-identified if it no 
longer allows the person concerned to be directly identified.
A public body that uses de-identified information must take reasonable 
measures to limit the risk of someone identifying a natural person using  
de-identified information.”
21. The Act is amended by inserting the following section after section 65.1:
“65.2. A public body that uses personal information to render a decision 
based exclusively on an automated processing of such information must inform 
the person concerned accordingly not later than at the time it informs the person 
of the decision.
16
It must also inform the person concerned, at the latter’s request,
(1) of the personal information used to render the decision;
(2) of the reasons and the principal factors and parameters that led to the 
decision; and
(3) of the right of the person concerned to have the personal information 
used to render the decision corrected.
The person concerned must be given the opportunity to submit observations 
to a member of the personnel of the public body who is in a position to review 
the decision.”
22. Section 67.2 of the Act is amended by replacing the last paragraph by 
the following paragraph:
“Subparagraph 2 of the second paragraph does not apply if the mandatary 
or the person performing the contract is another public body or a member of 
a professional order.”
23. The Act is amended by inserting the following sections after section 67.2:
“67.2.1. A public body may release personal information without the 
consent of the persons concerned to a person or body wishing to use the 
information for study or research purposes or for the production of statistics.
The information may be released if a privacy impact assessment concludes that
(1) the objective of the study or research or of the production of statistics 
can be achieved only if the information is released in a form allowing the 
persons concerned to be identified;
(2) it is unreasonable to require the person or body to obtain the consent of 
the persons concerned;
(3) the objective of the study or research or of the production of statistics 
outweighs, with regard to the public interest, the impact of releasing and using 
the information on the privacy of the persons concerned;
(4) the personal information is used in such a manner as to ensure 
confidentiality; and
(5) only the necessary information is released.
17
“67.2.2. A person or body wishing to use personal information for study 
or research purposes or for the production of statistics must
(1) request it in writing;
(2) enclose a detailed presentation of the research activities with the request;
(3) state the grounds supporting fulfillment of the criteria set out in 
subparagraphs 1 to 5 of the second paragraph of section 67.2.1;
(4) mention all the persons and bodies to whom or which the person or body 
is making a similar request for the purposes of the same study or research or 
production of statistics;
(5) if applicable, describe the different technologies that will be used to 
process the information; and
(6) if applicable, submit the documented decision of a research ethics 
committee relating to the study or research or the production of statistics.
“67.2.3. A public body that releases personal information in accordance 
with section 67.2.1 must first enter into an agreement with the person or body 
to whom or which the information is to be sent that stipulates, among other 
things, that the information
(1) may be made accessible only to persons who need to know it to exercise 
their functions and who have signed a confidentiality agreement;
(2) may not be used for purposes other than those specified in the detailed 
presentation of the research activities;
(3) may not be matched with any other information file that has not been 
provided for in the detailed presentation of the research activities; and
(4) may not be released, published or otherwise distributed in a form 
allowing the persons concerned to be identified.
The agreement must also
(1) specify the information that must be provided to the persons concerned 
if personal information concerning them is used to contact them to participate 
in the study or research;
(2) provide for measures for ensuring the protection of the personal 
information;
(3) determine a preservation period for the personal information;
(4) set out the obligation to notify the public body of the destruction of the 
personal information; and
18
(5) provide that the public body and the Commission must be informed 
without delay
(a) of non-compliance with any condition set out in the agreement;
(b) of any failure to comply with the protection measures provided for in 
the agreement; and
(c) of any event that could breach the confidentiality of the information.
The agreement must be sent to the Commission and comes into force 30 days 
after it is received by the Commission.”
24. Section 67.3 of the Act is amended by replacing “68 and 68.1” in the 
first paragraph by “67.2.1 and 68”.
25. Section 68 of the Act is amended
(1) by inserting the following paragraph after the first paragraph:
“The information may be released if a privacy impact assessment 
concludes that
(1) the intended objective can be achieved only if the information is released 
in a form allowing the person concerned to be identified;
(2) it is unreasonable to require obtaining the consent of the person 
concerned;
(3) the objective for which the release of the information is required 
outweighs, with regard to the public interest, the impact of releasing and using 
the information on the privacy of the person concerned;  and
(4) the personal information is used in such a manner as to ensure 
confidentiality.”;
(2) by adding the following paragraph at the end:
“The agreement must be sent to the Commission and comes into force 30 days 
after it is received by the Commission.”
26. Sections 68.1 and 70 of the Act are repealed.
19
27. Section 70.1 of the Act is replaced by the following section:
“70.1. Before releasing personal information outside Québec, a public 
body must conduct a privacy impact assessment. The body must, in particular, 
take into account
(1) the sensitivity of the information;
(2) the purposes for which it is to be used;
(3) the protection measures, including those that are contractual, that would 
apply to it; and
(4) the legal framework applicable in the State in which the information 
would be released, including the personal information protection principles 
applicable in that State.
The information may be released if the assessment establishes that it would 
receive adequate protection, in particular in light of generally recognized 
principles regarding the protection of personal information. The release of the 
information must be the subject of a written agreement that takes into account, 
in particular, the results of the assessment and, if applicable, the terms agreed 
on to mitigate the risks identified in the assessment.
The same applies where the public body entrusts a person or body outside 
Québec with the task of collecting, using, releasing or keeping such information 
on its behalf.
This section does not apply to a release of information under subparagraph 4 
of the second paragraph of section 59 or under subparagraph 1.1 of the first 
paragraph of section 68. Nor does it apply to a release of information within 
the scope of an international commitment referred to in Chapter III of the Act 
respecting the Ministère des Relations internationales (chapter M-25.1.1), a 
release of information within the scope of an agreement referred to in 
Chapter III.1 or III.2 of that Act, or a communication of information under 
section 133 of the Public Health Act (chapter S-2.2).”
28. Section 73 of the Act is amended
(1) by inserting “, or anonymize it to use it for public interest purposes” 
after “destroy the information”;
(2) by adding the following paragraphs at the end:
“For the purposes of this Act, information concerning a natural person is 
anonymized if it is, at all times, reasonably foreseeable in the circumstances 
that it irreversibly no longer allows the person to be identified directly or 
indirectly.
20
Information anonymized under this Act must be anonymized according to 
generally accepted best practices and according to the criteria and terms 
determined by regulation.”
29. Section 79 of the Act is amended
(1) by replacing “63.1 to 66” in the first paragraph by “63.1 to 63.4, 64 
to 66”;
(2) by replacing “63.1 to 66, 67.3 and 67.4 and 71 to 76” in the second 
paragraph by “63.1 to 63.4, 64 to 66, 67.3, 67.4 and 71 to 76”.
30. Section 84 of the Act is amended by inserting the following paragraph 
after the second paragraph:
“Unless doing so raises serious practical difficulties, computerized personal 
information collected from the applicant, and not created or inferred using 
personal information concerning him, must, at his request, be released to him 
in a structured, commonly used technological format. The information must 
also be released, at the applicant’s request, to any person or body authorized 
by law to collect such information.”
31. The Act is amended by inserting the following section after section 88:
“88.0.1. A public body may release personal information that it holds 
concerning a deceased person to the spouse or a close relative of the person if 
knowledge of the information could help the applicant in the grieving process 
and if the deceased person did not record in writing his refusal to grant such a 
right of access.”
32. Section 88.1 of the Act is amended by inserting “Subject to section 88.0.1,” 
at the beginning.
33. Section 94 of the Act is amended
(1) by replacing “or the person having parental authority even if the minor 
child is deceased” in the first paragraph by “the person having parental authority 
even if the minor child is deceased, or the spouse or close relative of a deceased 
person in accordance with section 88.0.1”;
(2) by replacing “designated by him” in the third paragraph by “to whom 
that function was delegated”.
34. Section 98 of the Act is amended by replacing “thereof by mail” in the 
second paragraph by “of the extension in writing”.
35. Section 100 of the Act is amended by adding the following sentence at 
the end: “If an applicant so requests, the person in charge must also help him 
understand the decision.”
21
36. Section 104 of the Act is amended
(1) by replacing “five” and “a vice-chair” in the first paragraph by “six” and 
“two vice-chairs”, respectively;
(2) by inserting the following paragraph after the first paragraph:
“One of the vice-chairs is responsible for the oversight division and must 
have expertise in the field of information technology, and another vice-chair 
is responsible for the adjudicative division.”;
(3) by striking out “and the vice-chair” in the second paragraph.
37. Section 107.1 of the Act is repealed.
38. Section 108 of the Act is replaced by the following section: 
“108. If the chair is absent or unable to act or if the office of chair is 
vacant, the President of the National Assembly may, with the consent of the 
Prime Minister and the Leader of the Official Opposition in the Assembly and 
after consulting the other leaders of the parliamentary groups within the 
meaning of the Standing Orders of the National Assembly, designate a  
vice-chair of the Commission or, if there is no vice-chair or the vice-chairs are 
absent or unable to act, another member of the Commission to act in the place 
of the chair for the duration of the absence or inability to act or, if the office 
is vacant, for a period not exceeding 18 months.
If a vice-chair of the Commission is absent or unable to act or if the office 
of the vice-chair is vacant, the President of the National Assembly may, with 
the consent of the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Official Opposition in 
the Assembly and after consulting the other leaders of the parliamentary groups 
within the meaning of the Standing Orders of the National Assembly, designate 
another member of the Commission to act in the place of the vice-chair for the 
duration of the absence or inability to act or, if the office is vacant, for a period 
not exceeding 18 months.” 
39. Section 109 of the Act is amended 
(1) by inserting “and after consulting the other leaders of the parliamentary 
groups within the meaning of the Standing Orders of the National Assembly” 
after “in the Assembly” in the first paragraph;
(2) by replacing “second” in the second paragraph by “third”.
40. The Act is amended by inserting the following sections after section 110:
“110.0.1. The chair may delegate all or some of the chair’s powers and 
duties to a vice-chair.
22
“110.0.2. In addition to the powers and duties that may otherwise be 
assigned to him or that may be delegated to him by the chair, a vice-chair
(1) assists and advises the chair in the exercise of the chair’s functions; and
(2) performs his administrative functions under the chair’s authority.”
41. Section 118 of the Act is amended
(1) by replacing “to the designated Minister” in the first paragraph by “the 
minister responsible for the administration of this Act”;
(2) by inserting “and with any other subject the Minister may submit to the 
Commission” at the end of the fourth paragraph.
42. Section 120 of the Act is amended by replacing “designated Minister” 
in the first paragraph by “minister responsible for the administration of this Act”.
43. Section 122 of the Act is replaced by the following section:
“122. The functions and powers of the Commission provided for in this 
division are exercised by the chair, the vice-chair responsible for the oversight 
division and the members assigned to that division.”
44. Section 122.1 of the Act is amended by inserting “, in particular by using 
awareness tools” at the end of the second paragraph.
45. Section 123 of the Act is amended by adding the following paragraphs 
at the end:
“(7) conduct or commission research, inventories, studies or analyses;
“(8) issue opinions regarding proposed legislation and plans to develop 
information systems; and
“(9) develop guidelines to facilitate the application of this Act and the Act 
respecting the protection of personal information in the private sector 
(chapter P-39.1), in particular with regard to consent.”
46. Section 125 of the Act is repealed.
47. Section 127 of the Act is amended by replacing “an interested” in the 
introductory clause of the first paragraph by “a”.
23
48. The Act is amended by inserting the following sections after section 127:
“127.1. The Commission may, by a formal demand notified by any 
appropriate method, require any person, whether subject to this Act or not, to 
file, within a reasonable time specified in the demand, any information or 
document to verify compliance with this Act or the regulations.
The person to whom the demand is made shall comply with it within the 
specified time regardless of whether the person has already filed such 
information or documents pursuant to a similar demand or pursuant to an 
obligation under this Act or the regulations.
“127.2. The Commission may, when a confidentiality incident is brought 
to its attention, order any person, after giving him the opportunity to submit 
observations, to take any measure to protect the rights of the persons concerned 
that are granted to them by this Act, for the time and on the conditions the 
Commission determines. It may, in particular, order that the personal information 
involved be returned to the public body or destroyed.
If a person to whom an order applies was not given prior notice because, in 
the opinion of the Commission, urgent action is required or there is a danger 
of irreparable injury being caused, the person may, within the time specified 
in the order, submit observations so that the order may be reviewed by the 
Commission.”
49. Section 129 of the Act is amended
(1) by inserting the following paragraph after the second paragraph:
“Where the inquiry concerns an agreement sent under the law to the 
Commission, the Commission may make any order against a public body that 
is a party to the agreement that it considers appropriate for protecting the rights 
granted by this Act to the persons to whom the information relates.”;
(2) in the third paragraph,
(a) by replacing “order it to” by “recommend or order that the public body”;
(b) by inserting “within the reasonable time limit the Commission specifies” 
at the end.  
50. The Act is amended by inserting the following section after section 129:
“129.1. Any order issued by the Commission’s oversight division becomes 
executory in the same manner as a decision referred to in section 144.”
24
51. Section 130.2 of the Act is amended
(1) by replacing “the third paragraph” in the first paragraph by “the third 
and fourth paragraphs”;
(2) in the second paragraph,
(a) by inserting “2,” after “paragraphs 1,”;
(b) by replacing “sections 123.1 and 125” by “section 123.1”.
52. Section 133 of the Act is amended
(1) by striking out “or after making an order”;
(2) by replacing “or set out the situation in its annual report” by “, set out 
the situation in its annual report or inform the public accordingly”.
53. Section 134.1 of the Act is replaced by the following section:
“134.1. The functions and powers of the Commission provided for in this 
division are exercised by the chair, the vice-chair responsible for the adjudicative 
division and the members assigned to that division.”
54. The Act is amended by inserting the following sections after section  134.2:
“134.3. When exercising the functions and powers provided for in this 
division, the Commission and its members are vested with the powers and 
immunity of commissioners appointed under the Act respecting public inquiry 
commissions (chapter C-37), except the power to order imprisonment.
“134.4. The parties to a proceeding must ensure that their actions, their 
pleadings and the means of proof they use are proportionate, in terms of the 
cost and time involved, to the nature and complexity of the matter and the 
purpose of the application.
The Commission must do likewise in managing each proceeding it is 
assigned. It must ensure that the measures and acts it orders or authorizes are 
in keeping with that principle of proportionality, while having regard to the 
proper administration of justice.”
55. Section 136 of the Act is amended by replacing “mailing” in the first 
paragraph by “date of transmission”.
56. Section 137 of the Act is amended by replacing “mail” in the fourth 
paragraph by “sending a written notice”.
25
57. Section 137.1 of the Act is amended
(1) in the first paragraph,
(a) by replacing “applications” and “an application” by “requests” and “a 
request”, respectively;
(b) by adding the following sentence at the end: “It may also limit the scope 
of the applicant’s request or extend the time limit within which the public body 
must reply.”;
(2) by replacing “applications” in the second paragraph by “requests”;
(3) by adding the following paragraph at the end:
“The public body’s application must be filed, from the date the applicant’s 
most recent request was received, within the same time limit as would be 
applicable to the processing of a request under section 47 or 98.”
58. Section 137.2 of the Act is amended by adding the following paragraph 
at the end:
“In such cases, the Commission may prohibit a person from bringing an 
application except with the authorization of and subject to the conditions 
determined by the chair of the Commission. It may, in the same manner, prohibit 
a person from presenting a pleading in an ongoing proceeding.”
59. The Act is amended by inserting the following section after section  137.3:
“137.4. The Commission may, at any stage of the proceeding, use 
technological means that are available to both the parties and itself. It may, 
even on its own initiative, order that such means be used by the parties. If the 
Commission considers it necessary, it may also, despite an agreement between 
the parties, require a person to appear in person at a hearing, conference or 
examination.”
60. Section 139 of the Act is amended by inserting “136,” after “135,”.
61. The heading of Chapter V of the Act is amended by adding “AND 
CONTESTATION” at the end.
62. Section 147 of the Act is amended
(1) by striking out “, including an order of the Commission issued following 
an investigation,”;
26
(2) by adding the following paragraph at the end:
“The person may also contest before a judge of the Court of Québec an order 
issued by the Commission’s oversight division.”
63. Section 149 of the Act is amended
(1) by replacing “the date the parties receive the final decision” in the second 
paragraph by “notification of the final decision”;
(2) by adding the following paragraph at the end:
“The proceeding to contest an order issued by the Commission’s oversight 
division must be filed at the office of the Court of Québec within 30 days after 
notification of the order and must specify the questions that ought to be 
examined.”
64. Section 150 of the Act is amended by adding the following paragraph 
at the end:
“The filing of the proceeding to contest an order issued by the Commission’s 
oversight division does not suspend the execution of the order. However, on a 
motion heard and judged on an urgent basis, a judge of the Court of Québec 
may order otherwise because of the urgency of the situation or the risk of 
serious and irreparable injury.”
65. Section 151 of the Act is amended
(1) by replacing “contested decision and the documents related to the 
contestation” in the second paragraph by “decision appealed from and the 
accompanying documents”;
(2) by adding the following paragraph at the end:
“The contestation of an order issued by the Commission’s oversight division 
must be served on the Commission and, if applicable, on the other parties, 
within 10 days after its filing at the office of the Court of Québec. The secretary 
of the Commission shall send a copy of the contested order and the accompanying 
documents to the office of the Court, to serve as a joint record.”
66. Section 152 of the Act is amended by adding the following paragraph 
at the end:
“The contestation is governed by the rules of the Code of Civil Procedure 
that are applicable in first instance.”
27
67. Section 155 of the Act is amended, in the first paragraph,
(1) by striking out “the rules may provide for the establishment of a 
committee to be responsible for supporting the public body in carrying out its 
responsibilities, and entrust functions to persons other than the person in charge 
of access to documents or the protection of personal information;” in 
subparagraph 3.1;
(2) by inserting the following subparagraphs after subparagraph 3.1:
“(4) exempting a public body from the obligation to establish the committee 
provided for in section 8.1 or modify a body’s obligations under that section 
according to criteria it defines;
“(5) determining the content and terms of the governance rules provided 
for in section 63.3;
“(6) determining the content and terms of the policy provided for in 
section 63.4;
“(6.1) determining the content and terms of the notices provided for in 
section 63.8;
“(6.2) determining the content of the register provided for in section 63.11;
“(6.3) for the purposes of section 73, determining the criteria and terms 
applicable to the anonymization of personal information;”.
68. Section 156 of the Act is amended
(1) by replacing “designated minister” by “minister responsible for the 
administration of this Act”;
(2) by inserting “made under this Act” after “draft regulation”.
69. Sections 158 to 162 of the Act are replaced by the following sections:
“158. Anyone who
(1) denies or impedes access to a document or information that is accessible 
by law, in particular by destroying, modifying or concealing the document or 
by unduly delaying its release,
(2) grants access to a document to which the law does not allow access or 
to which a public body refuses access in accordance with the law,
(3) informs a person of the existence of information he does not have the 
right to be informed of under the law,
28
(4) hinders the person in charge of access to documents or the protection 
of personal information in the performance of his functions,
(5) collects, uses, keeps or destroys personal information in contravention 
of the law,
(6) fails to report, where required to do so, a confidentiality incident to the 
Commission or to the persons concerned, or
(7) fails to comply with the conditions set out in an agreement entered into 
under section 67.2.3 
commits an offence and is liable to a fine of $1,000 to $10,000 in the case of 
a natural person and of $3,000 to $30,000 in all other  cases.
“159. Anyone who
(1) releases personal information in contravention of the law,
(2) identifies or attempts to identify a natural person using de-identified 
information without the authorization of the public body holding the information 
or using anonymized information,
(3) impedes the progress of an inquiry or inspection of the Commission or 
the hearing of an application by the Commission by providing it with false or 
inaccurate information, by omitting to provide information it requires or 
otherwise,
(4) refuses or neglects to comply, within the prescribed time, with a demand 
sent under section 127.1,
(5) fails to comply with an order of the Commission, or
(6) does not take the security measures necessary to ensure the protection 
of the personal information in accordance with section 63.1
commits an offence and is liable to a fine of $5,000 to $100,000 in the case of 
a natural person and of $15,000 to $150,000 in all other cases.
“160. In determining the penalty, the judge shall take into account the 
following factors, among others:
(1) the nature, seriousness, repetitiveness and duration of the offence;
(2) the sensitivity of the personal information concerned by the offence;
(3) whether the offender acted intentionally or was negligent or reckless;
(4) the foreseeable character of the offence or the failure to follow 
recommendations or warnings to prevent it;
29
(5) the offender’s attempts to cover up the offence or failure to try to mitigate 
its consequences;
(6) whether the offender failed to take reasonable measures to prevent the 
commission of the offence;
(7) whether the offender obtained or intended to obtain an increase in 
revenues or a decrease in expenses by committing the offence or by omitting 
to take measures to prevent it; and
(8) the number of persons concerned by the offence and the risk of injury 
to which they are exposed.”
70. The Act is amended by inserting the following sections after section 164:
“164.1. In the case of a subsequent offence, the fines under this division 
are doubled.
“164.2. All penal proceedings must be instituted within five years of the 
commission of the offence.”
71. Section 167 of the Act is replaced by the following section:
“167. Where the unlawful infringement of a right recognized by Chapter III 
causes injury and the infringement is intentional or results from a gross fault, 
the court shall award punitive damages of not less than $1,000.”
72. Section 174 of the Act is amended by replacing “the Commission” in 
the second paragraph by “the Commission’s oversight division”.
73. Section 179 of the Act is amended by replacing “2011” in the first 
paragraph by “2026”.
FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION ACT
74. Section 44 of the Financial Administration Act (chapter A-6.001) is 
repealed.
TAX ADMINISTRATION ACT
75. Section 31.1.7 of the Tax Administration Act (chapter A-6.002) is 
repealed.
76. Section 69.8 of the Act is amended by replacing “, 68, 68.1 and  70” in 
the last paragraph by “and 68”.
77. Section 71 of the Act is amended by replacing “, 68, 68.1 and 70” in the 
last paragraph by “and 68”.
30
HEALTH INSURANCE ACT
78. Section 65.0.2 of the Health Insurance Act (chapter A-29) is amended 
by replacing the second paragraph by the following paragraph:
“The agreement shall be sent to the Commission d’accès à l’information 
and comes into force 30 days after it is received by the Commission.”
79. Section 67 of the Act is amended by replacing “authorized by the 
Commission d’accès à l’information” in the ninth paragraph by “or to a body 
to enable the person or body, in accordance with sections 67.2.1 to 67.2.3 of 
the Act respecting Access to documents held by public bodies and the Protection 
of personal information,”.
ACT TO ESTABLISH A LEGAL FRAMEWORK FOR INFORMATION 
TECHNOLOGY
80. Section 44 of the Act to establish a legal framework for information 
technology (chapter C-1.1) is amended by replacing “, except with the express 
consent of the person concerned. Where consent is obtained, only” and “be 
recorded” in the first paragraph by “except where such verification or 
confirmation has been previously disclosed to the Commission d’accès à 
l’information and except with the express consent of the person concerned. 
Only” and “then be used”, respectively.
81. Section 45 of the Act is amended by replacing the first paragraph by the 
following paragraph:
“The creation of a database of biometric characteristics and measurements 
must be disclosed to the Commission d’accès à l’information promptly and 
not later than 60 days before it is brought into service.”
ACT RESPECTING ELECTIONS AND REFERENDUMS IN 
MUNICIPALITIES
82. Section 659 of the Act respecting elections and referendums in 
municipalities (chapter E-2.2) is amended by replacing “70” in the third 
paragraph by “68”.
ACT RESPECTING SCHOOL ELECTIONS TO ELECT CERTAIN 
MEMBERS OF THE BOARDS OF DIRECTORS OF  
ENGLISH-LANGUAGE SCHOOL SERVICE CENTRES
83. Section 282 of the Act respecting school elections to elect certain 
members of the boards of directors of English-language school service centres 
(chapter E-2.3) is amended by replacing both occurrences of “70” by “68”.
31
ELECTION ACT
84. Section 40.38.3 of the Election Act (chapter E-3.3) is amended by 
replacing “must undertake” in the second paragraph by “receives it after 
undertaking”.
85. Section 40.42 of the Act is amended 
(1) by replacing “the second paragraph” in the first paragraph by “the second 
and fourth paragraphs”;
(2) by adding the following paragraph at the end:
“The Chief Electoral Officer may enter into an agreement, in accordance 
with sections 67.2.1 to 67.2.3 of the Act respecting Access to documents held 
by public bodies and the Protection of personal information (chapter A-2.1), 
to communicate personal information contained in the permanent list of electors 
to a person or body wishing to use the information for study or research purposes 
or for the production of statistics.”
86. The Act is amended by inserting the following title after section 127.21:
“TITLE III.1
“PROTECTION OF THE PERSONAL INFORMATION OF ELECTORS
“127.22. Subject to any provision that is inconsistent with this Act, the 
Act respecting the protection of personal information in the private sector 
(chapter P-39.1), except sections 4, 5, 12, 23 and 27 to 60, applies to the personal 
information of electors held by a political party, an independent Member or an 
independent candidate.
Every political party shall designate, from among its officers, the person 
who is to exercise the function of person in charge of the protection of personal 
information.
For the purposes of the Act respecting the protection of personal information 
in the private sector and of this Title, the party authority is considered to form 
an integral part of a political party.
“127.23. A political party, an independent Member and an independent 
candidate may collect only the personal information of electors that is necessary 
for election or political financing purposes, or for the purposes of a political 
activity within the meaning of section 88, in accordance with this Act. They 
may use such personal information only for those same purposes.
In addition, they may not collect or use personal information without the 
consent of the person concerned.”
32
87. Section 146 of the Act is amended by adding the following sentence at 
the end of the second paragraph: “A candidate receives the lists after undertaking 
in writing to take appropriate measures to protect the confidentiality of the lists 
and to ensure that they are used solely for the purposes provided for by this Act.”
88. Section 551.1.1 of the Act is amended by inserting “collects,” after 
“Every person who” and by replacing “$1,000 to $10,000 in the case of a 
natural person, and of $3,000 to $30,000 in the case of a legal person” by 
“$5,000 to $50,000 in the case of a natural person, and of $15,000 to $150,000 
in all other cases”.
89. Section 551.2 of the Act is amended by replacing “$10,000, in the case 
of a natural person, and of $10,000 to $30,000, in the case of a legal person” 
by “$50,000 in the case of a natural person, and of $15,000 to $150,000 in all 
other cases”.
90. Section 570 of the Act is amended by striking out the second paragraph.
ACT RESPECTING THE INSTITUT DE LA STATISTIQUE DU QUÉBEC
91. Section 13.5 of the Act respecting the Institut de la statistique du Québec 
(chapter I-13.011), enacted by section 71 of chapter 15 of the statutes of 2021, 
is replaced by the following section:
“13.5. Designated information is communicated for research purposes by 
the Institut to a researcher attached to a public body in accordance with this 
chapter despite sections 67.2.1 to 67.2.3 of the Act respecting Access to 
documents held by public bodies and the Protection of personal information 
(chapter A-2.1).”
92. Section 13.6 of the Act, enacted by section 71 of chapter 15 of the statutes 
of 2021, is amended by striking out “the first paragraph of” in the introductory 
clause.
ACT RESPECTING LA FINANCIÈRE AGRICOLE DU QUÉBEC
93. Section 28 of the Act respecting La Financière agricole du Québec 
(chapter L-0.1) is amended by replacing the last paragraph by the following 
paragraph:
“The agreement shall be sent to the Commission d’accès à l’information 
and comes into force 30 days after it is received by the Commission.”
33
ACT RESPECTING THE MINISTÈRE DE L’EMPLOI ET DE LA 
SOLIDARITÉ SOCIALE AND THE COMMISSION DES PARTENAIRES 
DU MARCHÉ DU TRA V AIL
94. Section 8 of the Act respecting the Ministère de l’Emploi et de la 
Solidarité sociale and the Commission des partenaires du marché du travail 
(chapter M-15.001) is amended by replacing the second paragraph by the 
following paragraph:
“The agreement must be sent to the Commission d’accès à l’information 
and comes into force 30 days after it is received by the Commission.”
ACT RESPECTING THE SECTORAL PARAMETERS OF CERTAIN 
FISCAL MEASURES
95. Section 31 of the Act respecting the sectoral parameters of certain fiscal 
measures (chapter P-5.1) is amended by striking out the second paragraph.
96. Section 32 of the Act is replaced by the following section:
“32. Communication of information to the Minister of Finance for a 
purpose mentioned in section 31 and in accordance with that section or on the 
initiative of a responsible minister or body referred to in that section need not 
be recorded in the register provided for in section 41.3 of the Act respecting 
Access to documents held by public bodies and the Protection of personal 
information (chapter A-2.1).”
ACT RESPECTING THE SHARING OF CERTAIN HEALTH 
INFORMATION
97. Section 106 of the Act respecting the sharing of certain health information 
(chapter P-9.0001) is amended by replacing subparagraph 4 of the first 
paragraph by the following subparagraph:
“(4) a person or body that may, in accordance with sections 67.2.1 to 67.2.3 
of the Act respecting Access to documents held by public bodies and the 
Protection of personal information (chapter A-2.1), use the information for 
study or research purposes or for the production of statistics in the health and 
social services  field.”
98. Section 107 of the Act is repealed.
ACT TO PREVENT AND FIGHT SEXUAL VIOLENCE IN HIGHER 
EDUCATION INSTITUTIONS
99. Section 4 of the Act to prevent and fight sexual violence in higher 
education institutions (chapter P-22.1) is amended by adding the following 
paragraph at the end:
34
“At the request of a person who has filed a complaint, the educational 
institution must communicate to the person the information relating to the 
follow-up that has been given to the complaint, namely, whether or not a penalty 
has been imposed as well as the details and terms of the penalty, if applicable.”
ACT RESPECTING THE PROTECTION OF PERSONAL INFORMATION 
IN THE PRIV ATE SECTOR
100. Section 1 of the Act respecting the protection of personal information 
in the private sector (chapter P-39.1) is amended
(1) by inserting “, whether the enterprise keeps the information itself or 
through the agency of a third person,” after “information” in the second 
paragraph;
(2) by inserting “and to that held by a political party, an independent Member 
or an independent candidate to the extent provided for by the Election Act 
(chapter E-3.3)” after “(chapter C-26)” in the third paragraph;
(3) by adding the following sentence at the end of the fifth paragraph: “Nor 
do they apply to personal information concerning the performance of duties 
within an enterprise by the person concerned, such as the person’s name, title 
and duties, as well as the address, email address and telephone number of the 
person’s place of work.”
101. The Act is amended by inserting the following section after section 1:
“1.1. For the purposes of this Act, any person who collects personal 
information relating to another person for a serious and legitimate reason is 
deemed to be establishing a file within the meaning of the Civil Code and the 
rights concerning such a file conferred by articles 35 to 40 of that Code apply 
to the personal information collected.”
102. Section 2 of the Act is amended by inserting “directly or indirectly” 
before “allows”.
103. The Act is amended by inserting the following division after section  3:
“DIVISION I.1
“RESPONSIBILITIES RELATING TO PROTECTION OF PERSONAL 
INFORMATION
“3.1. Any person carrying on an enterprise is responsible for protecting 
the personal information held by the person.
35
Within the enterprise, the person exercising the highest authority shall see 
to ensuring that this Act is implemented and complied with. That person shall 
exercise the function of person in charge of the protection of personal 
information; he may delegate all or part of that function in writing to any person.
The title and contact information of the person in charge of the protection 
of personal information must be published on the enterprise’s website or, if the 
enterprise does not have a website, be made available by any other 
appropriate  means.
“3.2. Any person carrying on an enterprise must establish and implement 
governance policies and practices regarding personal information that ensure 
the protection of such information. Such policies and practices must, in 
particular, provide a framework for the keeping and destruction of the 
information, define the roles and responsibilities of the members of its personnel 
throughout the life cycle of the information and provide a process for dealing 
with complaints regarding the protection of the information. The policies and 
practices must also be proportionate to the nature and scope of the enterprise’s 
activities and be approved by the person in charge of the protection of personal 
information.
Detailed information about those policies and practices, in particular as 
concerns the content required under the first paragraph, must be published in 
simple and clear language on the enterprise’s website or, if the enterprise does 
not have a website, made available by any other appropriate  means.
“3.3. Any person carrying on an enterprise must conduct a privacy impact 
assessment for any project to acquire, develop or overhaul an information 
system or electronic service delivery system involving the collection, use, 
communication, keeping or destruction of personal information.
For the purposes of such an assessment, the person must consult the person 
in charge of the protection of personal information within the enterprise from 
the outset of the project.
The person must also ensure that the project allows computerized personal 
information collected from the person concerned to be communicated to him 
in a structured, commonly used technological format.
The conduct of a privacy impact assessment under this Act must be 
proportionate to the sensitivity of the information concerned, the purposes for 
which it is to be used, the quantity and distribution of the information and the 
medium on which it is  stored.
“3.4. The person in charge of the protection of personal information may, 
at any stage of a project referred to in section 3.3, suggest personal information 
protection measures applicable to the project, such as
(1) the appointment of a person to be responsible for implementing the 
personal information protection measures;
36
(2) measures to protect the personal information in any document relating 
to the project;
(3) a description of the project participants’ responsibilities with regard to 
the protection of personal information; or
(4) training activities for project participants on the protection of personal 
information.
“3.5. Any person carrying on an enterprise who has cause to believe that 
a confidentiality incident involving personal information the person holds has 
occurred must take reasonable measures to reduce the risk of injury and to 
prevent new incidents of the same nature.
If the incident presents a risk of serious injury, the person carrying on an 
enterprise must promptly notify the Commission d’accès à l’information 
established by section 103 of the Act respecting Access to documents held by 
public bodies and the Protection of personal information (chapter A-2.1). He 
must also notify any person whose personal information is concerned by the 
incident, failing which the Commission may order him to do so. He may also 
notify any person or body that could reduce the risk, by communicating to the 
person or body only the personal information necessary for that purpose without 
the consent of the person concerned. In the latter case, the person in charge of 
the protection of personal information must record the communication of the 
information.
Despite the second paragraph, a person whose personal information is 
concerned by the incident need not be notified so long as doing so could hamper 
an investigation conducted by a person or body responsible by law for the 
prevention, detection or repression of crime or statutory offences.
A government regulation may determine the content and terms of the notices 
provided for in this section.
“3.6. For the purposes of this Act, “confidentiality incident” means
(1) access not authorized by law to personal information;
(2) use not authorized by law of personal information;
(3) communication not authorized by law of personal information; or
(4) loss of personal information or any other breach of the protection of 
such information.
“3.7. In assessing the risk of injury to a person whose personal information 
is concerned by a confidentiality incident, a person carrying on an enterprise 
must consider, in particular, the sensitivity of the information concerned, the 
37
anticipated consequences of its use and the likelihood that such information 
will be used for injurious purposes. The person must also consult the person 
in charge of the protection of personal information within the enterprise.
“3.8. A person carrying on an enterprise must keep a register of 
confidentiality incidents. A government regulation may determine the content 
of the register.
A copy of the register must be sent to the Commission at its request.”
104. Section 4 of the Act is replaced by the following sections:
“4. Any person carrying on an enterprise who, for a serious and legitimate 
reason, collects personal information on another person must determine the 
purposes for collecting the information before doing so.
“4.1. The personal information concerning a minor under 14 years of age 
may not be collected from him without the consent of the person having parental 
authority or of the tutor, unless collecting the information is clearly for the 
minor’s benefit.”
105. Section 5 of the Act is amended by replacing the first paragraph by the 
following paragraph:
“Any person collecting personal information on another person may collect 
only the information necessary for the purposes determined before collecting it.”
106. Section 7 of the Act is amended by replacing the first two paragraphs 
by the following paragraph:
“Any person collecting personal information from another person carrying 
on an enterprise must, at the request of the person concerned, inform the latter 
of the source of the information.”
107. Section 8 of the Act is replaced by the following sections:
“8. Any person who collects personal information from the person 
concerned must, when the information is collected and subsequently on request, 
inform that person
(1) of the purposes for which the information is collected;
(2) of the means by which the information is collected;
(3) of the rights of access and rectification provided by law; and
(4) of the person’s right to withdraw consent to the communication or use 
of the information collected.
38
If applicable, the person concerned is informed of the name of the third 
person for whom the information is being collected, the name of the third 
persons or categories of third persons to whom it is necessary to communicate 
the information for the purposes referred to in subparagraph 1 of the first 
paragraph, and the possibility that the information could be communicated 
outside Québec.
On request, the person concerned is also informed of the personal information 
collected from him, the categories of persons who have access to the information 
within the enterprise, the duration of the period of time the information will 
be kept, and the contact information of the person in charge of the protection 
of personal information.
The information must be provided to the person concerned in clear and 
simple language, regardless of the means used to collect the personal information.
“8.1. In addition to the information that must be provided in accordance 
with section 8, any person who collects personal information from the person 
concerned using technology that includes functions allowing the person 
concerned to be identified, located or profiled must first inform the person
(1) of the use of such technology; and
(2) of the means available to activate the functions that allow a person to 
be identified, located or profiled.
“Profiling” means the collection and use of personal information to assess 
certain characteristics of a natural person, in particular for the purpose of 
analyzing that person’s work performance, economic situation, health, personal 
preferences, interests or behaviour.
“8.2. Any person who collects personal information through technological 
means must publish on the enterprise’s website, if applicable, a confidentiality 
policy drafted in clear and simple language and disseminate it by any appropriate 
means to reach the persons concerned. The person must do the same for the 
notice required for any amendment to such a policy.
“8.3. Any person who provides his personal information in accordance 
with section 8 consents to its use and its communication for the purposes 
referred to in subparagraph  1 of the first paragraph of that section.”
108. The Act is amended by inserting the following section after section 9:
“9.1. Any person carrying on an enterprise who collects personal 
information when offering to the public a technological product or service 
having privacy settings must ensure that those settings provide the highest level 
of confidentiality by default, without any intervention by the person concerned.
The first paragraph does not apply to privacy settings for browser cookies.”
39
109. Section 11 of the Act is amended
(1) by replacing “file” by “personal information”;
(2) by adding the following paragraph at the end:
“The information used to make such a decision is kept for at least one year 
following the decision.”
110. Sections 12 to 14 of the Act are replaced by the following sections:
“12. Unless the person concerned gives his consent, personal information 
may not be used within the enterprise except for the purposes for which it was 
collected. Such consent must be given expressly when it concerns sensitive 
personal information.
Personal information may, however, be used for another purpose without 
the consent of the person concerned, but only
(1) if it is used for purposes consistent with the purposes for which it was 
collected;
(2) if it is clearly used for the benefit of the person concerned;
(3) if its use is necessary for the purpose of preventing and detecting fraud 
or of assessing and improving protection and security measures;
(4) if its use is necessary for the purpose of providing or delivering a product 
or providing a service requested by the person concerned; or
(5) if its use is necessary for study or research purposes or for the production 
of statistics and if the information is de-identified.
In order for a purpose to be consistent within the meaning of subparagraph 1 
of the second paragraph, it must have a direct and relevant connection with the 
purposes for which the information was collected. However, commercial or 
philanthropic prospection may not be considered a consistent purpose.
For the purposes of this Act, personal information is
(1) de-identified if it no longer allows the person concerned to be directly 
identified;
(2) sensitive if, due to its nature, in particular its medical, biometric or 
otherwise intimate nature, or the context of its use or communication, it entails 
a high level of reasonable expectation of privacy.
40
Every person carrying on an enterprise who uses de-identified information 
must take reasonable measures to limit the risk of someone identifying a natural 
person using de-identified information.
“12.1. Any person carrying on an enterprise who uses personal information 
to render a decision based exclusively on an automated processing of such 
information must inform the person concerned accordingly not later than at 
the time it informs the person of the decision.
He must also inform the person concerned, at the latter’s request,
(1) of the personal information used to render the decision;
(2) of the reasons and the principal factors and parameters that led to the 
decision; and
(3) of the right of the person concerned to have the personal information 
used to render the decision corrected.
The person concerned must be given the opportunity to submit observations 
to a member of the personnel of the enterprise who is in a position to review 
the decision.
“13. No person may communicate to a third person the personal information 
he holds on another person, unless the person concerned consents to, or this 
Act provides for, such communication.
Such consent must be given expressly when it concerns sensitive personal 
information.
“14. Consent under this Act must be clear, free and informed and be given 
for specific purposes. It must be requested for each such purpose, in clear and 
simple language. If the request for consent is made in writing, it must be 
presented separately from any other information provided to the person 
concerned. If the person concerned so requests, assistance is provided to help 
him understand the scope of the consent requested.
The consent of a minor under 14 years of age is given by the person having 
parental authority or by the tutor. The consent of a minor 14 years of age or 
over is given by the minor, by the person having parental authority or by 
the tutor.
Consent is valid only for the time necessary to achieve the purposes for 
which it was requested.
Consent not given in accordance with this Act is without effect.”
41
111. Section 17 of the Act is replaced by the following section:
“17. Before communicating personal information outside Québec, a person 
carrying on an enterprise must conduct a privacy impact assessment. The person 
must, in particular, take into account
(1) the sensitivity of the information;
(2) the purposes for which it is to be used;
(3) the protection measures, including those that are contractual, that would 
apply to it; and
(4) the legal framework applicable in the State in which the information 
would be communicated, including the personal information protection 
principles applicable in that State.
The information may be communicated if the assessment establishes that it 
would receive adequate protection, in particular in light of generally recognized 
principles regarding the protection of personal information. The communication 
of the information must be the subject of a written agreement that takes into 
account, in particular, the results of the assessment and, if applicable, the terms 
agreed on to mitigate the risks identified in the assessment.
The same applies where the person carrying on an enterprise entrusts a person 
or body outside Québec with the task of collecting, using, communicating or 
keeping such information on his behalf.
This section does not apply to a communication of information under 
subparagraph 7 of the first paragraph of section 18.”
112. Section 18 of the Act is amended
(1) in the first paragraph,
(a) by striking out “contained in a file” in the introductory clause;
(b) by inserting “person or” before “body responsible” in subparagraph 3;
(c) by inserting the following subparagraph after subparagraph 7:
“(7.1) to a person or body in accordance with sections 18.1 to 18.4;”;
(d) by replacing “is authorized to use” in subparagraph 8 by “may use”;
(e) by striking out subparagraph 10;
42
(2) in the second paragraph,
(a) by replacing “10” by “9.1”;
(b) by striking out the last sentence.
113. Section 18.1 of the Act is amended
(1) by striking out “included in a file” in the first paragraph;
(2) by striking out the last sentence of the fourth paragraph.
114. Section 18.2 of the Act is amended by striking out “contained in a file” 
in the first paragraph.
115. The Act is amended by inserting the following sections after section 18.2:
“18.3. A person carrying on an enterprise may, without the consent of 
the person concerned, communicate personal information to any person or 
body if the information is necessary for carrying out a mandate or performing 
a contract of enterprise or for services entrusted to that person or body by the 
person carrying on an enterprise.
In such a case, the person carrying on an enterprise must
(1) entrust the mandate or contract in writing; and
(2) specify in the mandate or contract the measures the mandatary or the 
person performing the contract must take to protect the confidentiality of the 
personal information communicated, to ensure that the information is used 
only for carrying out the mandate or performing the contract and to ensure that 
the mandatary or person does not keep the information after the expiry of the 
mandate or contract. A person or body carrying out a mandate or performing 
a contract of enterprise or for services referred to in the first paragraph must 
notify the person in charge of the protection of personal information without 
delay of any violation or attempted violation by any person of any obligation 
concerning the confidentiality of the information communicated, and must also 
allow the person in charge of the protection of personal information to conduct 
any verification relating to confidentiality requirements.
Subparagraph 2 of the second paragraph does not apply if the mandatary or 
the person performing the contract is a public body within the meaning of the 
Act respecting Access to documents held by public bodies and the Protection 
of personal information (chapter A-2.1) or a member of a professional order.
“18.4. Where the communication of personal information is necessary 
for concluding a commercial transaction to which a person carrying on an 
enterprise intends to be a party, the person may communicate such information, 
without the consent of the person concerned, to the other party to the transaction.
43
An agreement must first be entered into with the other party that stipulates, 
among other things, that the latter undertakes
(1) to use the information only for concluding the commercial transaction;
(2) not to communicate the information without the consent of the person 
concerned, unless authorized to do so by this Act;
(3) to take the measures required to protect the confidentiality of the 
information; and
(4) to destroy the information if the commercial transaction is not concluded 
or if using the information is no longer necessary for concluding the commercial 
transaction.
Where the commercial transaction has been concluded and the other party 
wishes to continue using the information or to communicate it, that party may 
use or communicate it only in accordance with this Act. Within a reasonable 
time after the commercial transaction is concluded, that party must notify the 
person concerned that it now holds personal information concerning him 
because of the transaction.
For the purposes of this section, “commercial transaction” means the 
alienation or leasing of all or part of an enterprise or of its assets, a modification 
of its legal structure by merger or otherwise, the obtaining of a loan or any 
other form of financing by the enterprise or of a security taken to guarantee 
any of its obligations.”
116. Section 19 of the Act is amended by replacing “the file held” in the first 
paragraph by “the personal information held”.
117. Section 20 of the Act is replaced by the following section:
“20. In the carrying on of an enterprise, authorized employees or agents 
may have access to personal information without the consent of the person 
concerned only if the information is needed for the performance of their duties.”
118. Section 21 of the Act is replaced by the following sections:
“21. A person carrying on an enterprise may communicate personal 
information without the consent of the persons concerned to a person or body 
wishing to use the information for study or research purposes or for the 
production of statistics.
The information may be communicated if a privacy impact assessment 
concludes that
(1) the objective of the study or research or of the production of statistics 
can be achieved only if the information is communicated in a form allowing 
the persons concerned to be identified;
44
(2) it is unreasonable to require the person or body to obtain the consent of 
the persons concerned;
(3) the objective of the study or research or of the production of statistics 
outweighs, with regard to the public interest, the impact of communicating and 
using the information on the privacy of the persons concerned;
(4) the personal information is used in such a manner as to ensure 
confidentiality; and
(5) only the necessary information is communicated.
“21.0.1. A person or body wishing to use personal information for study 
or research purposes or for the production of statistics must
(1) request it in writing;
(2) enclose a detailed presentation of the research activities with the request;
(3) state the grounds supporting fulfillment of the criteria set out in 
subparagraphs 1 to 5 of the second paragraph of section 21;
(4) mention all the persons and bodies to whom or which the person or body 
is making a similar request for the purposes of the same study or research or 
production of statistics;
(5) if applicable, describe the different technologies that will be used to 
process the information; and
(6) if applicable, send the documented decision of a research ethics 
committee relating to the study or research or the production of statistics.
“21.0.2. A person who communicates personal information in accordance 
with section 21 must first enter into an agreement with the person or body to 
whom or which the information is to be sent that stipulates, among other things, 
that the information
(1) may be made accessible only to persons who need to know it to exercise 
their functions and who have signed a confidentiality agreement;
(2) may not be used for purposes other than those specified in the detailed 
presentation of the research activities;
(3) may not be matched with any other information file that has not been 
provided for in the detailed presentation of the research activities; and
(4) may not be communicated, published or otherwise distributed in a form 
allowing the persons concerned to be identified.
45
The agreement must also
(1) specify the information that must be provided to the persons concerned 
if personal information concerning them is used to contact them to participate 
in the study or research;
(2) provide for measures for ensuring the protection of the personal 
information;
(3) determine a preservation period for the personal information;
(4) set out the obligation to notify the person who communicates the personal 
information of its destruction; and
(5) provide that the person who communicates the personal information and 
the Commission must be informed without delay
(a) of non-compliance with any condition set out in the agreement;
(b) of any failure to comply with the protection measures provided for in 
the agreement; and
(c) of any event that could breach the confidentiality of the information.
The agreement must be sent to the Commission and comes into force 30 days 
after it is received by the Commission.”
119. Sections 22 to 26 of the Act are replaced by the following:
“22. Any person carrying on an enterprise who uses personal information 
for commercial or philanthropic prospection purposes must identify himself 
to the person whom he is addressing and inform that person of his right to 
withdraw his consent to the personal information concerning him being used 
for such purposes.
If the person concerned withdraws his consent regarding such use, the 
personal information must cease to be used for those purposes.
“§3. — Destruction or anonymization
“23. Where the purposes for which personal information was collected 
or used are achieved, the person carrying on an enterprise must destroy the 
information, or anonymize it to use it for serious and legitimate purposes, 
subject to any preservation period provided for by an  Act.
For the purposes of this Act, information concerning a natural person is 
anonymized if it is, at all times, reasonably foreseeable in the circumstances 
that it irreversibly no longer allows the person to be identified directly or 
indirectly.
46
Information anonymized under this Act must be anonymized according to 
generally accepted best practices and according to the criteria and terms 
determined by regulation.”
120. Section 27 of the Act is amended by replacing the first paragraph by 
the following paragraphs:
“Every person carrying on an enterprise who holds personal information on 
another person must, at the request of the person concerned, confirm the 
existence of the personal information, communicate it to the person and allow 
him to obtain a copy of it.
At the applicant’s request, computerized personal information must be 
communicated in the form of a written and intelligible transcript.
Unless doing so raises serious practical difficulties, computerized personal 
information collected from the applicant, and not created or inferred using 
personal information concerning him, must, at his request, be communicated 
to him in a structured, commonly used technological format. The information 
must also be communicated, at the applicant’s request, to any person or body 
authorized by law to collect such information.”
121. Section 28 of the Act is replaced by the following sections:
“28. In addition to the rights provided under the first paragraph of 
article 40 of the Civil Code, any person may, if personal information concerning 
him is inaccurate, incomplete or equivocal, or if collecting, communicating or 
keeping it are not authorized by law, require that the information be rectified.
“28.1. The person to whom personal information relates may require any 
person carrying on an enterprise to cease disseminating that information or to 
de-index any hyperlink attached to his name that provides access to the 
information by a technological means, if the dissemination of the information 
contravenes the law or a court order.
The person may do likewise, or may require that the hyperlink providing 
access to the information be re-indexed, where the following conditions are met:
(1) the dissemination of the information causes the person concerned serious 
injury in relation to his right to the respect of his reputation or privacy;
(2) the injury is clearly greater than the interest of the public in knowing 
the information or the interest of any person in expressing himself freely; and
(3) the cessation of dissemination, re-indexation or de-indexation requested 
does not exceed what is necessary for preventing the perpetuation of the injury.
In assessing the criteria set out in the second paragraph, the following, in 
particular, must be taken into account:
47
(1) the fact that the person concerned is a public figure;
(2) the fact that the information concerns the person at the time the person 
is a minor;
(3) the fact that the information is up to date and accurate;
(4) the sensitivity of the information;
(5) the context in which the information is disseminated;
(6) the time elapsed between the dissemination of the information and the 
request made under this section; and
(7) where the information concerns a criminal or penal procedure, the 
obtaining of a pardon or the application of a restriction on the accessibility of 
records of the courts of justice.
Sections 30, 32 and 34 apply, with the necessary modifications, to a request 
made under this section. When granting such a request, the person in charge 
of the protection of personal information shall attest, in his written reply under 
section 32, to the cessation of the dissemination of the personal information 
or to the de-indexation or the re-indexation of the hyperlink.”
122. Section 29 of the Act is amended by replacing both occurrences of 
“files” by “personal information”.
123. Section 30 of the Act is amended
(1) by replacing “or the person having parental authority even if the minor 
child is dead” in the first paragraph by “, the person having parental authority 
even if the minor child is deceased, or the spouse or a close relative of the 
deceased person in accordance with section 40.1”;
(2) by inserting the following paragraph after the first paragraph:
“Such a request must be addressed to the person in charge of the protection 
of personal information. If the request is not sufficiently precise or if a person 
requires it, the person in charge must assist in identifying the information sought.”;
(3) by replacing “correction” in the second paragraph in the French text by 
“rectification”.
124. Section 32 of the Act is amended by replacing the first paragraph by 
the following paragraph:
“The person in charge of the protection of personal information must reply 
in writing to the request for access or rectification, promptly and not later than 
30 days after the date the request is received.”
48
125. Section 33 of the Act is amended by replacing “the personal information 
contained in a file” in the first paragraph by “personal information”.
126. Section 34 of the Act is replaced by the following section:
“34. The person in charge of the protection of personal information must 
give the reasons for any refusal to grant a request and indicate the provision 
of law on which the refusal is based, the remedies available to the applicant 
under this Act and the time limit for exercising them. If the applicant so requests, 
the person in charge must also help him understand the refusal.”
127. Section 35 of the Act is amended by replacing “the person holding a 
file” and “that personal information has been deleted” by “the person in charge 
of the protection of personal information” and “of the deletion of personal 
information”, respectively.
128. Section 40 of the Act is amended by striking out “who holds a file on 
another person”.
129. The Act is amended by inserting the following section after section 40:
“40.1. A person carrying on an enterprise may communicate personal 
information that he holds concerning a deceased person to the spouse or a close 
relative of the person if knowledge of the information could help the applicant 
in the grieving process and if the deceased person did not record in writing his 
refusal to grant such a right of access.”
130. Section 41 of the Act is amended
(1) by replacing “A” by “Subject to section 40.1, a”;
(2) by striking out “who holds a file on another person”.
131. Section 42 of the Act is amended by replacing “25” by “28.1”.
132. Section 46 of the Act is amended
(1) by adding the following sentence at the end of the first paragraph: “The 
person may also request the Commission to limit the scope of the applicant’s 
request or extend the time limit within which he must reply.”;
(2) by adding the following paragraph at the end:
“A request made under the first paragraph must be sent to the Commission 
within the same time limit as would be applicable to the processing of a request 
under section 32, from the date the applicant’s most recent request was received.”
49
133. Section 52 of the Act is amended by adding the following paragraph 
at the end:
“In such cases, the Commission may prohibit a person from bringing an 
application except with the authorization of and subject to the conditions 
determined by the chair of the Commission. It may, in the same manner, prohibit 
a person from presenting a pleading in an ongoing proceeding.”
134. Section 53 of the Act is amended by replacing “holding the file” and 
“that the file” by “holding the personal information” and “that it”, respectively.
135. Section 56 of the Act is repealed.
136. Section 58 of the Act is replaced by the following section:
“58. A decision of the Commission prescribing a particular course of 
action to a party is enforceable 30 days after its receipt by the parties.
A decision prohibiting a course of action to a party is enforceable from its 
delivery to the party concerned.
From the time a decision becomes enforceable, a certified copy of the decision 
may be filed by the Commission or a party in the office of the clerk of the 
Superior Court of the district of Montréal or Québec or of the district where 
the head office, business establishment or residence of a party is situated.
The filing confers on the decision the same force and effect as a judgment 
of the Superior Court.”
137. The heading of subdivision 3 of Division V of the Act is amended by 
adding “and contestation ” at the end.
138. Section 61 of the Act is amended by adding the following paragraph 
at the end:
“The person may also contest before a judge of the Court of Québec an order 
issued by the Commission’s oversight division.”
139. Section 63 of the Act is amended
(1) by replacing “the date the parties receive the final decision” in the second 
paragraph by “notification of the final decision”;
(2) by adding the following paragraph at the end:
“The proceeding to contest an order issued by the Commission’s oversight 
division is filed at the office of the Court of Québec within 30 days after 
notification of the order and must specify the questions which ought to be 
examined.”
50
140. Section 64 of the Act is amended by adding the following paragraph 
at the end:
“The filing of the proceeding to contest an order issued by the Commission’s 
oversight division does not suspend the execution of the order. However, on a 
motion heard and judged on an urgent basis, a judge of the Court of Québec 
may order otherwise because of the urgency of the situation or the risk of 
serious and irreparable injury.”
141. Section 65 of the Act is amended
(1) by replacing “contested decision and the documents related to the 
contestation” in the second paragraph by “decision appealed from and the 
accompanying documents”;
(2) by adding the following paragraph at the end:
“The contestation of an order issued by the Commission’s oversight division 
must be served on the Commission and, if applicable, on the other parties, 
within 10 days after its filing at the office of the Court of Québec. The secretary 
of the Commission shall send a copy of the contested order and the accompanying 
documents to the office of the Court to serve as a joint record.”
142. Section 67 of the Act is amended by adding the following paragraph 
at the end:
“The contestation is governed by the rules of the Code of Civil Procedure 
that are applicable in first instance.”
143. Section 71 of the Act is amended by inserting “, and that it is 
communicated in accordance with this Act” at the end.
144. Section 72 of the Act is amended 
(1) by replacing subparagraphs 1 to 3 of the first paragraph by the following 
subparagraphs:
“(1) the name, address and email address of the agent and, in the case of a 
legal person, the address of its head office and the names and addresses of its 
directors;
“(2) the address, email address and telephone number of each establishment 
of the agent in Québec;
“(3) the title and contact information of the person in charge of the protection 
of personal information;
“(4) the method of operation provided for in section 71;
51
“(5) the rules of conduct provided for in section 78; and
“(6) the other measures taken to ensure the confidentiality and security of 
personal information in accordance with this Act.”;
(2) by replacing the second paragraph by the following paragraph:
“Every personal information agent must inform the Commission of any 
change in the information referred to in the first paragraph no later than 30 days 
following the change. If applicable, the agent must also promptly inform the 
Commission of the expected termination of the agent’s activities.”
145. Section 74 of the Act is replaced by the following section:
“74. The Commission shall keep a current register of personal information 
agents containing, for each agent, the agent’s name, address and email address, 
and the title and contact information of the person in charge of the protection 
of personal information.”
146. Section 75 of the Act is amended by adding the following sentence at 
the end of the first paragraph: “It may also be consulted on the Commission’s 
website.”
147. Section 76 of the Act is repealed.
148. Sections 78 and 79 of the Act are replaced by the following sections:
“78. Every personal information agent must establish and apply within 
his enterprise rules of conduct allowing any person to whom personal 
information held by the agent relates to have access to the information according 
to a procedure that ensures the protection of the information and to cause the 
information to be rectified.
“79. Every personal information agent must inform the public
(1) of the fact that the agent holds personal information on other persons, 
that he gives communication of credit reports bearing on the character, 
reputation or solvency of the persons to whom the personal information relates 
to persons with whom he is bound by contract, and that he receives from the 
latter personal information relating to other persons;
(2) of the rights of access and rectification that the persons concerned may 
exercise under this Act in respect of the personal information the agent 
holds; and
(3) of the information provided for in subparagraphs 3 to 6 of the first 
paragraph of section 72.
52
The information must be published on the personal information agent’s 
website, or, if the agent does not have a website, made available by any other 
appropriate means.
“79.1. Despite section 23, a personal information agent must destroy 
personal information collected more than seven years earlier.
This section does not apply to personal information in a file established for 
the purposes of an inquiry to prevent, detect or repress a crime or statutory 
offence.”
149. Section 80 of the Act is amended by replacing “in sections 21 and” by 
“in section”.
150. Section 80.1 of the Act is amended
(1) in the first paragraph,
(a) by inserting “functions and” after “exercise the”;
(b) by replacing “21, 21.1, 72, 81, 83, 84” by “21.1, 72, 80.2, 81, 81.3, 81.4, 
83, 84, 92”;
(2) by replacing “21, 21.1” in the second paragraph by “21.1, 80.2”.
151. The Act is amended by inserting the following section after section 80.1:
“80.1.1. For the purposes of subdivisions 4.1 and 5, a political party is 
considered a natural person.”
152. Section 81 of the Act is amended
(1) by replacing “an interested” by “a”;
(2) by adding the following sentence at the end: “A complaint may be filed 
anonymously.”
153. The Act is amended by inserting the following sections after section 81:
“81.1. It is forbidden to take a reprisal against a person on the ground that 
the person has, in good faith, filed a complaint with the Commission or 
cooperated in an investigation.
It is also forbidden to threaten to take a reprisal against a person to dissuade 
him from filing a complaint or cooperating in an investigation.
“81.2. The demotion, suspension, dismissal or transfer of a person or any 
other disciplinary measure or measure that adversely affects a person’s 
employment or conditions of employment is presumed to be a reprisal within 
the meaning of section 81.1.
53
“81.3. The Commission may, by a formal demand notified by any 
appropriate method, require any person, whether subject to this Act or not, to 
file, within a reasonable time specified in the demand, any information or 
document to verify compliance with this Act or the regulations.
The person to whom the demand is made shall comply with it within the 
specified time regardless of whether the person has already filed such 
information or documents pursuant to a similar demand or pursuant to an 
obligation under this Act or the regulations.
“81.4. The Commission may, when a confidentiality incident is brought 
to its attention, order any person, after giving him the opportunity to submit 
observations, to take any measure to protect the rights of the persons concerned 
that are granted by this Act, for the time and on the conditions the Commission 
determines. It may, in particular, order that the personal information involved 
be returned to the person carrying on an enterprise or destroyed.
If a person to whom an order applies was not given prior notice because, in 
the opinion of the Commission, urgent action is required or there is a danger 
of irreparable injury being caused, the person may, within the time specified 
in the order, submit observations so that the order may be reviewed by the 
Commission.”
154. Section 83 of the Act is amended 
(1) by adding the following paragraph before the first paragraph:
“The inquiries of the Commission are non-adversary investigations.”;
(2) by inserting “within the reasonable time limit the Commission specifies” 
at the end of the first paragraph;
(3) by striking out the second paragraph.
155. The Act is amended by inserting the following section after section 83:
“83.1. Every person carrying on an enterprise must, at the request of the 
Commission, provide it with any information it requires on the carrying out of 
this Act.”
156. Sections 86 and 87 of the Act are replaced by the following sections:
“86. An order issued by the Commission’s oversight division becomes 
enforceable in the same manner as a decision referred to in section 58.
“87. A person directly interested may contest an order issued by the 
Commission’s oversight division.
The contestation is subject to the rules set out in sections 61 to 69.”
54
157. Section 88 of the Act is amended by replacing “2011” in the first 
paragraph by “2026”.
158. Section 90 of the Act is amended by replacing subparagraph 3 of the 
first paragraph by the following subparagraphs:
“(3) determine the content and terms of the notices provided for in 
section 3.5;
“(3.1) determine the content of the register provided for in section 3.8;
“(3.2) for the purposes of section 23, determine the criteria and terms 
applicable to the anonymization of personal information;
“(3.3) determine the cases in which a recovery charge is payable under 
section 90.17, as well as the conditions of payment and the amount payable;”.
159. The Act is amended by inserting the following subdivision after 
section 90:
“§4.1. — Monetary administrative penalties
“90.1. A monetary administrative penalty may be imposed by a person 
designated by the Commission, but who is not a member of any of its divisions, 
on anyone who
(1) does not inform the persons concerned in accordance with sections 7 
and 8;
(2) collects, uses, communicates, keeps or destroys personal information 
in contravention of the law;
(3) does not report, where required to do so, a confidentiality incident to 
the Commission or to the persons concerned;
(4) does not take the security measures necessary to ensure the protection 
of the personal information in accordance with section 10;
(5) does not inform the person concerned by a decision based exclusively 
on an automated process or does not give the person an opportunity to submit 
observations, in contravention of section 12.1; or
(6) is a personal information agent and contravenes any of sections 70, 70.1, 
71, 72, 78, 79 and 79.1.
Following a failure referred to in the first paragraph, a person may, at any 
time, enter into an undertaking with the Commission to take the measures 
necessary to remedy the failure or mitigate its consequences. The undertaking 
must identify the acts or omissions constituting a failure and the provisions 
55
involved. It may also include the conditions the Commission considers 
necessary and contain a requirement to pay a sum of money.
If the undertaking is accepted by the Commission and is complied with, no 
monetary administrative penalty may be imposed on the person carrying on an 
enterprise with regard to the acts or omissions mentioned in the undertaking.
“90.2. The Commission shall develop and make public a general 
framework for the application of monetary administrative penalties and shall 
specify in the framework the following elements in particular:
(1) the purpose of the penalties, such as urging a person carrying on an 
enterprise to rapidly take the measures required to remedy the failure and deter 
repetition of such failures;
(2) the criteria that must guide designated persons in the decision to impose 
a penalty when a failure occurs and in the determination of the amount of the 
penalty, including
(a) the nature, seriousness, repetitiveness and duration of the failure;
(b) the sensitivity of the personal information concerned by the failure;
(c) the number of persons concerned by the failure and the risk of injury to 
which they are exposed;
(d) the measures taken by the person in default to remedy the failure or 
mitigate its consequences;
(e) the degree of cooperation provided to the Commission to remedy the 
failure or mitigate its consequences;
(f) the compensation offered by the person in default, as restitution, to every 
person concerned by the failure; and
(g) the ability to pay of the person in default, given such considerations as 
the person’s assets, turnover and revenues;
(3) the circumstances in which priority will be given to penal proceedings; and 
(4) the other terms regarding the imposition of such a penalty.
“90.3. When a failure referred to in section 90.1 has occurred, a notice 
of non-compliance may be notified to the person in default to urge him to take, 
without delay, the measures required to remedy the failure. The notice must 
mention the fact that the failure could give rise to a monetary administrative 
penalty or penal sanctions, among other things.
56
“90.4. The designated person must, before imposing a monetary 
administrative penalty, notify the notice of non-compliance referred to in 
section 90.3 to the person in default and give the person an opportunity to 
submit observations and produce any documents to complete the record.
“90.5. A monetary administrative penalty is imposed on the person in 
default by notification of a notice of claim setting out the amount of the claim, 
the reasons for it, the time from which it bears interest, the right to apply for 
a review of the decision, the right to contest the review decision before the 
Court of Québec and the time limit for bringing such proceedings.
The notice of claim must also include information on the procedure for 
recovery of the amount owing, in particular with regard to the issue of a recovery 
certificate under section 90.14 and its effects. The person must also be advised 
that the facts on which the claim is founded may result in penal proceedings.
The amount owing bears interest at the rate determined under the first 
paragraph of section 28 of the Tax Administration Act (chapter A-6.002), from 
the 31st day after notification of the notice.
The notification of a notice of claim interrupts the prescription provided for 
in the Civil Code with regard to the recovery of the amount owing.
“90.6. The person in default may apply to the Commission in writing for 
a review of the decision to impose a monetary administrative penalty, within 
30 days after notification of the notice of claim.
A member assigned to the Commission’s oversight division is responsible 
for reviewing the decision.
“90.7. The application for review must be dealt with promptly. The review 
decision is rendered after giving the person in default an opportunity to submit 
observations and produce any documents to complete the record. The decision 
may confirm, quash or vary the decision under review.
“90.8. The review decision must be written in clear and concise terms, 
with reasons given, must be notified to the applicant and must state the 
applicant’s right to contest the decision before the Court of Québec and the 
time limit for bringing such a proceeding.
If the review decision is not rendered within 30 days after the application is 
received or, if applicable, after the time granted to the applicant to submit 
observations or produce documents, the interest provided for in the first 
paragraph of section 90.5 on the amount owing is suspended until the decision 
is rendered.
“90.9. A review decision confirming or amending the decision to impose 
a monetary administrative penalty may be contested before the Court of Québec 
within 30 days after notification of the contested decision.
57
The contestation is subject to the rules set out in sections 61 to 69, with the 
necessary modifications.
“90.10. The imposition of a monetary administrative penalty is prescribed 
two years from the date of the failure to comply with the Act.
“90.11. No monetary administrative penalty may be imposed on a person 
for a failure to comply with this Act if a statement of offence has already been 
served on the person for a failure to comply with the same provision on the 
same day, based on the same facts.
“90.12. The maximum amount of the monetary administrative penalty 
is $50,000 in the case of a natural person and, in all other cases, $10,000,000 
or, if greater, the amount corresponding to 2% of worldwide turnover for the 
preceding fiscal year.
“90.13. The debtor and the Commission may enter into a payment 
agreement with regard to the amount owing. Such an agreement, or the payment 
of the amount owing, does not constitute, for the purposes of penal proceedings 
or any other administrative penalty under this Act, an acknowledgement of the 
facts giving rise to it.
“90.14. If the amount owing is not paid in its entirety or the payment 
agreement is not adhered to, the Commission may issue a recovery certificate 
upon the expiry of the time for applying for a review of the decision imposing 
the monetary administrative penalty, upon the expiry of the time for contesting 
the review decision before the Court of Québec or upon the expiry of 30 days 
after the final decision of the Court confirming all or part of the decision 
imposing the penalty or the review decision, as applicable.
However, a recovery certificate may be issued before the expiry of the time 
referred to in the first paragraph if the Commission is of the opinion that the 
debtor is attempting to evade payment.
A recovery certificate must state the debtor’s name and address and the 
amount of the debt.
“90.15. Once a recovery certificate has been issued, the Minister of 
Revenue applies, in accordance with section 31 of the Tax Administration Act 
(chapter A-6.002), any refund owed to a person under a fiscal law to the payment 
of an amount owed by that person under this Act.
The allocation interrupts the prescription provided for in the Civil Code with 
regard to the recovery of an amount owing.
“90.16. Upon the filing of the recovery certificate at the office of the 
competent court, together with a copy of the final decision stating the amount 
of the debt, the decision becomes enforceable as if it were a final judgment of 
that court not subject to appeal, and has all the effects of such a judgment.
58
“90.17. The debtor is required to pay a recovery charge in the cases, 
under the conditions and in the amount determined by regulation.”
160. Sections 91 to 92.1 of the Act are replaced by the following sections:
“91. Anyone who
(1) collects, uses, communicates, keeps or destroys personal information 
in contravention of the law,
(2) fails to report, where required to do so, a confidentiality incident to the 
Commission or to the persons concerned,
(3) contravenes the prohibition set out in section 8.4,
(4) does not take the security measures necessary to ensure the protection 
of the personal information in accordance with section 10,
(5) identifies or attempts to identify a natural person using de-identified 
information without the authorization of the person holding the information 
or using anonymized information,
(6) is a personal information agent and contravenes any of sections 70, 70.1, 
71, 72, 78, 79 and 79.1,
(7) impedes the progress of an inquiry or inspection of the Commission or 
the hearing of an application by the Commission by providing it with false or 
inaccurate information, by omitting to provide information it requires or 
otherwise,
(8) contravenes section 81.1,
(9) refuses or neglects to comply, within the specified time, with a demand 
made under section 81.3, or
(10) fails to comply with an order of the Commission
commits an offence and is liable to a fine of $5,000 to $100,000 in the case of 
a natural person and, in all other cases, of $15,000 to $25,000,000, or, if greater, 
the amount corresponding to 4% of worldwide turnover for the preceding 
fiscal year.
“92. The Commission may, in accordance with article 10 of the Code of 
Penal Procedure (chapter C-25.1), institute penal proceedings for an offence 
under this division.
“92.1. In the case of a subsequent offence, the fines under this division 
are doubled.
59
“92.2. All penal proceedings must be instituted within five years of the 
commission of the offence.
“92.3. In determining the penalty, the judge takes into account the 
following factors, among others:
(1) the nature, seriousness, repetitiveness and duration of the offence;
(2) the sensitivity of the personal information concerned by the offence;
(3) whether the offender acted intentionally or was negligent or reckless;
(4) the foreseeable character of the offence or the failure to follow 
recommendations or warnings to prevent it;
(5) the offender’s attempts to cover up the offence or failure to try to mitigate 
its consequences;
(6) whether the offender failed to take reasonable measures to prevent the 
commission of the offence;
(7) whether the offender obtained or intended to obtain an increase in 
revenues or a decrease in expenses by committing the offence or by omitting 
to take measures to prevent it; and
(8) the number of persons concerned by the offence and the risk of injury 
to which they are exposed.”
161. The Act is amended by inserting the following after section 93:
“§6. — Damages
“93.1. Where the unlawful infringement of a right conferred by this Act 
or by articles 35 to 40 of the Civil Code causes an injury and the infringement 
is intentional or results from a gross fault, the court shall award punitive 
damages of not less than $1,000.”
ANIMAL HEALTH PROTECTION ACT
162. Section 11.3 of the Animal Health Protection Act (chapter P-42) is 
amended by replacing the last paragraph by the following paragraph:
“The agreements must be sent to the Commission d’accès à l’information 
and come into force 30 days after they are received by the Commission.”
60
163. Section 22.4 of the Act is amended by replacing the last paragraph by 
the following paragraph:
“The agreements must be sent to the Commission d’accès à l’information 
and come into force 30 days after they are received by the Commission.”
ACT RESPECTING THE LEGAL PUBLICITY OF ENTERPRISES
164. Section 101 of the Act respecting the legal publicity of enterprises 
(chapter P-44.1) is amended, in the second paragraph,
(1) by striking out “and 5”;
(2) by replacing “section 67 or” by “any of sections 67, 67.2.1 and”.
165. Section 121 of the Act is amended, in subparagraph 2 of the third 
paragraph,
(1) by striking out “or 5”;
(2) by replacing “section 67 or” by “any of sections 67, 67.2.1 and”.
ACT RESPECTING THE RÉGIE DE L’ASSURANCE MALADIE 
DU QUÉBEC
166. Section 2 of the Act respecting the Régie de l’assurance maladie du 
Québec (chapter R-5) is amended by replacing “pursuant to an agreement 
subject to section 70 of the Act respecting Access to documents held by public 
bodies and the Protection of personal information (chapter A-2.1)” in the fourth 
paragraph by “, pursuant to an agreement sent to the Commission d’accès à 
l’information,”.
ACT RESPECTING THE GOVERNMENT AND PUBLIC EMPLOYEES 
RETIREMENT PLAN
167. Section 223 of the Act respecting the Government and Public Employees 
Retirement Plan (chapter R-10) is amended by replacing “67 to 70” in the 
second paragraph by “67 to 68”.
ACT RESPECTING OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY
168. Section 175 of the Act respecting occupational health and safety 
(chapter S-2.1) is amended
(1) by striking out “and notwithstanding subparagraph 5 of the second 
paragraph of section 59 of the Act respecting Access to documents held by 
public bodies and the Protection of personal information (chapter A-2.1)” in 
the first paragraph;
61
(2) by replacing the second paragraph by the following paragraph:
“The authorization is granted in accordance with sections 67.2.1 to 67.2.3 
of the Act respecting Access to documents held by public bodies and the 
Protection of personal information (chapter A-2.1).”
PUBLIC HEALTH ACT 
169. Section 36 of the Public Health Act (chapter S-2.2) is amended by 
replacing “which is within the purview of the Commission d’accès à 
l’information” in the second paragraph by “which must be the subject of an 
agreement sent to the Commission d’accès à l’information”.
ACT RESPECTING HEALTH SERVICES AND SOCIAL SERVICES
170. Section 19.2 of the Act respecting health services and social services 
(chapter S-4.2) is amended by replacing the first sentence of the second 
paragraph by the following sentence: “Before granting such authorization, the 
director must, however, ascertain that it is consistent with sections 67.2.1 to 
67.2.3 of the Act respecting Access to documents held by public bodies and 
the Protection of personal information (chapter A-2.1).”
ACT RESPECTING HEALTH SERVICES AND SOCIAL SERVICES FOR 
CREE NATIVE PERSONS
171. Section 7 of the Act respecting health services and social services for 
Cree Native persons (chapter S-5) is amended, in the fourth paragraph,
(1) by striking out “, notwithstanding subparagraph 5 of the second 
paragraph of section 59 of the Act respecting Access to documents held by 
public bodies and the Protection of personal information (chapter A-2.1),”;
(2) by replacing “that the criteria determined under section 125 of the Act 
are satisfied” by “that it is consistent with sections 67.2.1 to 67.2.3 of the Act 
respecting Access to documents held by public bodies and the Protection of 
personal information (chapter A-2.1)”.
CREDIT ASSESSMENT AGENTS ACT
172. Section 108 of the Credit Assessment Agents Act (2020, chapter 21) 
is amended by renumbering section 8.1 of the Act respecting the protection of 
personal information in the private sector (chapter P-39.1) that it enacts, which 
becomes section 8.4.
173. Section 111 of the Act is repealed.
62
TRANSITIONAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS
174. Sections 64, 68 and 68.1 of the Act respecting Access to documents 
held by public bodies and the Protection of personal information (chapter A-2.1), 
as they read on 22 September 2021, continue to apply to any agreement entered 
into in accordance with one of those sections before that date and still in force 
on 22 September 2023, until the expiry date of the agreement or until 
22 September 2025, whichever occurs first.
175. The provisions of this Act come into force on 22 September 2023, 
except 
(1) paragraph 2 of section 41 and sections 73, 157, 172 and 173, which 
come into force on 22 September 2021;
(2) sections 1, 3 and 7, subparagraph c of paragraph 2 of section 13, 
subparagraph d of that paragraph insofar as it concerns sections 63.8 and 67.2.1 
of the Act respecting Access to documents held by public bodies and the 
Protection of personal information, section 15 insofar as it enacts sections 63.8 
to 63.11 of the Act respecting Access to documents held by public bodies and 
the Protection of personal information, section 23, section 24 insofar as it 
concerns section 67.2.1 of the Act respecting Access to documents held by 
public bodies and the Protection of personal information, paragraph 2 of 
section 33, sections 36 to 40, paragraph 1 of section 41, sections 42 to 54 and 57 
to 66, section 67, except subparagraphs 5 and 6.3 of the first paragraph of 
section 155 of the Act respecting Access to documents held by public bodies 
and the Protection of personal information, enacted by paragraph 2 of that 
section, sections 68, 79 to 81, 85, 90 to 92, 97 and 99, section 103 insofar as 
it enacts sections 3.1 and 3.5 to 3.8 of the Act respecting the protection of 
personal information in the private sector (chapter P-39.1), subparagraph c of 
paragraph 1 of section 112 insofar as it concerns section 18.4 of the Act 
respecting the protection of personal information in the private sector, 
subparagraph d of that paragraph, section 115 insofar as it enacts section 18.4 
of the Act respecting the protection of personal information in the private sector, 
sections 118, 132, 133, 135 to 142, 149, 150 and 153 to 156, section 158 insofar 
as it enacts subparagraphs 3 and 3.1 of the first paragraph of section 90 of the 
Act respecting the protection of personal information in the private sector, and 
sections 164, 165, 168, 170 and 171, which come into force on 22 September 2022;
(3) section 30, and section 120 to the extent that it enacts the third paragraph 
of section 27 of the Act respecting the protection of personal information in 
the private sector, which come into force on 22 September 2024;
(4) section 160 insofar as it enacts paragraph 3 of section 91 of the Act 
respecting the protection of personal information in the private sector, which 
comes into force on the date of coming into force of section 108 of the Credit 
Assessment Agents Act (2020, chapter 21).

