 

 89(R) HB 149 - Enrolled version - Bill Text 

 H.B. No. 149 

 AN ACT 

 relating to regulation of the use of artificial intelligence 

 systems in this state; providing civil penalties. 

        BE IT ENACTED BY THE LEGISLATURE OF THE STATE OF TEXAS: 

        SECTION 1.  This Act may be cited as the Texas Responsible 

 Artificial Intelligence Governance Act. 

        SECTION 2.  Section 503.001, Business & Commerce Code, is 

 amended by amending Subsections (a) and (e) and adding Subsections 

 (b-1) and (f) to read as follows: 

        (a)  In this section : 

               (1)     "Artificial intelligence system" has the meaning 

 assigned by Section 551.001. 

               (2)  "Biometric [ , "biometric ] identifier" means a 

 retina or iris scan, fingerprint, voiceprint, or record of hand or 

 face geometry. 

         (b-1)     For purposes of Subsection (b), an individual has not 

 been informed of and has not provided consent for the capture or 

 storage of a biometric identifier of an individual for a commercial 

 purpose based solely on the existence of an image or other media 

 containing one or more biometric identifiers of the individual on 

 the Internet or other publicly available source unless the image or 

 other media was made publicly available by the individual to whom 

 the biometric identifiers relate. 

        (e)  This section does not apply to : 

               (1)   voiceprint data retained by a financial 

 institution or an affiliate of a financial institution, as those 

 terms are defined by 15 U.S.C. Section 6809 ; 

               (2)     the training, processing, or storage of biometric 

 identifiers involved in developing, training, evaluating, 

 disseminating, or otherwise offering artificial intelligence 

 models or systems, unless a system is used or deployed for the 

 purpose of uniquely identifying a specific individual; or 

               (3)     the development or deployment of an artificial 

 intelligence model or system for the purposes of: 

                     (A)     preventing, detecting, protecting against, 

 or responding to security incidents, identity theft, fraud, 

 harassment, malicious or deceptive activities, or any other illegal 

 activity; 

                     (B)     preserving the integrity or security of a 

 system; or 

                     (C)     investigating, reporting, or prosecuting a 

 person responsible for a security incident, identity theft, fraud, 

 harassment, a malicious or deceptive activity, or any other illegal 

 activity . 

         (f)     If a biometric identifier captured for the purpose of 

 training an artificial intelligence system is subsequently used for 

 a commercial purpose not described by Subsection (e), the person 

 possessing the biometric identifier is subject to: 

               (1)     this section's provisions for the possession and 

 destruction of a biometric identifier; and 

               (2)     the penalties associated with a violation of this 

 section. 

        SECTION 3.  Section 541.104(a), Business & Commerce Code, is 

 amended to read as follows: 

        (a)  A processor shall adhere to the instructions of a 

 controller and shall assist the controller in meeting or complying 

 with the controller's duties or requirements under this chapter, 

 including: 

              (1)  assisting the controller in responding to consumer 

 rights requests submitted under Section 541.051 by using 

 appropriate technical and organizational measures, as reasonably 

 practicable, taking into account the nature of processing and the 

 information available to the processor; 

              (2)  assisting the controller with regard to complying 

 with requirements [ the requirement ] relating to the security of 

 processing personal data , and if applicable, the personal data 

 collected, stored, and processed by an artificial intelligence 

 system, as that term is defined by Section 551.001, and to the 

 notification of a breach of security of the processor's system 

 under Chapter 521, taking into account the nature of processing and 

 the information available to the processor; and 

              (3)  providing necessary information to enable the 

 controller to conduct and document data protection assessments 

 under Section 541.105. 

        SECTION 4.  Title 11, Business & Commerce Code, is amended by 

 adding Subtitle D to read as follows: 

 SUBTITLE D.   ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE PROTECTION 

 CHAPTER 551.   GENERAL PROVISIONS 

         Sec. 551.001.  DEFINITIONS. In this subtitle: 

               (1)     "Artificial intelligence system" means any 

 machine-based system that, for any explicit or implicit objective, 

 infers from the inputs the system receives how to generate outputs, 

 including content, decisions, predictions, or recommendations, 

 that can influence physical or virtual environments. 

               (2)     "Consumer" means an individual who is a resident 

 of this state acting only in an individual or household context.   

 The term does not include an individual acting in a commercial or 

 employment context. 

               (3)     "Council" means the Texas Artificial Intelligence 

 Council established under Chapter 554. 

         Sec.   551.002.     APPLICABILITY OF SUBTITLE. This subtitle 

 applies only to a person who: 

               (1)     promotes, advertises, or conducts business in this 

 state; 

               (2)     produces a product or service used by residents of 

 this state; or 

               (3)     develops or deploys an artificial intelligence 

 system in this state. 

         Sec.   551.003.     CONSTRUCTION AND APPLICATION OF SUBTITLE. 

 This subtitle shall be broadly construed and applied to promote its 

 underlying purposes, which are to: 

               (1)     facilitate and advance the responsible 

 development and use of artificial intelligence systems; 

               (2)     protect individuals and groups of individuals from 

 known and reasonably foreseeable risks associated with artificial 

 intelligence systems; 

               (3)     provide transparency regarding risks in the 

 development, deployment, and use of artificial intelligence 

 systems; and 

               (4)     provide reasonable notice regarding the use or 

 contemplated use of artificial intelligence systems by state 

 agencies. 

 CHAPTER 552.   ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE PROTECTION 

 SUBCHAPTER A.   GENERAL PROVISIONS 

         Sec. 552.001.  DEFINITIONS. In this chapter: 

               (1)     "Deployer" means a person who deploys an 

 artificial intelligence system for use in this state. 

               (2)     "Developer" means a person who develops an 

 artificial intelligence system that is offered, sold, leased, 

 given, or otherwise provided in this state. 

               (3)     "Governmental entity" means any department, 

 commission, board, office, authority, or other administrative unit 

 of this state or of any political subdivision of this state, that 

 exercises governmental functions under the authority of the laws of 

 this state.   The term does not include: 

                     (A)     a hospital district created under the Health 

 and Safety Code or Article IX, Texas Constitution; or 

                     (B)     an institution of higher education, as 

 defined by Section 61.003, Education Code, including any university 

 system or any component institution of the system. 

         Sec.   552.002.     CONSTRUCTION OF CHAPTER. This chapter may 

 not be construed to: 

               (1)     impose a requirement on a person that adversely 

 affects the rights or freedoms of any person, including the right of 

 free speech; or 

               (2)     authorize any department or agency other than the 

 Department of Insurance to regulate or oversee the business of 

 insurance. 

         Sec.   552.003.     LOCAL PREEMPTION. This chapter supersedes 

 and preempts any ordinance, resolution, rule, or other regulation 

 adopted by a political subdivision regarding the use of artificial 

 intelligence systems. 

 SUBCHAPTER B. DUTIES AND PROHIBITIONS ON USE OF ARTIFICIAL 

 INTELLIGENCE 

         Sec.   552.051.     DISCLOSURE TO CONSUMERS. (a)   In this 

 section, "health care services"   means services related to human 

 health or to the diagnosis, prevention, or treatment of a human 

 disease or impairment provided by an individual licensed, 

 registered, or certified under applicable state or federal law to 

 provide those services. 

         (b)     A governmental agency that makes available an 

 artificial intelligence system intended to interact with consumers 

 shall disclose to each consumer, before or at the time of 

 interaction, that the consumer is interacting with an artificial 

 intelligence system. 

         (c)     A person is required to make the disclosure under 

 Subsection (b) regardless of whether it would be obvious to a 

 reasonable consumer that the consumer is interacting with an 

 artificial intelligence system. 

         (d)  A disclosure under Subsection (b): 

               (1)  must be clear and conspicuous; 

               (2)  must be written in plain language; and 

               (3)     may not use a dark pattern, as that term is defined 

 by Section 541.001. 

         (e)     A disclosure under Subsection (b) may be provided by 

 using a hyperlink to direct a consumer to a separate Internet web 

 page. 

         (f)     If an artificial intelligence system is used in relation 

 to health care service or treatment, the provider of the service or 

 treatment shall provide the disclosure under Subsection (b) to the 

 recipient of the service or treatment or the recipient's personal 

 representative not later than the date the service or treatment is 

 first provided, except in the case of emergency, in which case the 

 provider shall provide the required disclosure as soon as 

 reasonably possible. 

         Sec.   552.052.     MANIPULATION OF HUMAN BEHAVIOR. A person may 

 not develop or deploy an artificial intelligence system in a manner 

 that intentionally aims to incite or encourage a person to: 

               (1)  commit physical self-harm, including suicide; 

               (2)  harm another person; or 

               (3)  engage in criminal activity. 

         Sec.   552.053.     SOCIAL SCORING. A governmental entity may 

 not use or deploy an artificial intelligence system that evaluates 

 or classifies a natural person or group of natural persons based on 

 social behavior or personal characteristics, whether known, 

 inferred, or predicted, with the intent to calculate or assign a 

 social score or similar categorical estimation or valuation of the 

 person or group of persons that results or may result in: 

               (1)     detrimental or unfavorable treatment of a person 

 or group of persons in a social context unrelated to the context in 

 which the behavior or characteristics were observed or noted; 

               (2)     detrimental or unfavorable treatment of a person 

 or group of persons that is unjustified or disproportionate to the 

 nature or gravity of the observed or noted behavior or 

 characteristics; or 

               (3)     the infringement of any right guaranteed under the 

 United States Constitution, the Texas Constitution, or state or 

 federal law. 

         Sec.   552.054.     CAPTURE OF BIOMETRIC DATA. (a)   In this 

 section, "biometric data"   means data generated by automatic 

 measurements of an individual's biological characteristics.   The 

 term includes a fingerprint, voiceprint, eye retina or iris, or 

 other unique biological pattern or characteristic that is used to 

 identify a specific individual.   The term does not include a 

 physical or digital photograph or data generated from a physical or 

 digital photograph, a video or audio recording or data generated 

 from a video or audio recording, or information collected, used, or 

 stored for health care treatment, payment, or operations under the 

 Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (42 

 U.S.C. Section 1320d et seq.). 

         (b)     A governmental entity may not develop or deploy an 

 artificial intelligence system for the purpose of uniquely 

 identifying a specific individual using biometric data or the 

 targeted or untargeted gathering of images or other media from the 

 Internet or any other publicly available source without the 

 individual's consent, if the gathering would infringe on any right 

 of the individual under the United States Constitution, the Texas 

 Constitution, or state or federal law. 

         (c)     A violation of Section 503.001 is a violation of this 

 section. 

         Sec.   552.055.     CONSTITUTIONAL PROTECTION. (a)   A person may 

 not develop or deploy an artificial intelligence system with the 

 sole intent for the artificial intelligence system to infringe, 

 restrict, or otherwise impair an individual's rights guaranteed 

 under the United States Constitution. 

         (b)     This section is remedial in purpose and may not be 

 construed to create or expand any right guaranteed by the United 

 States Constitution. 

         Sec.   552.056.     UNLAWFUL DISCRIMINATION. (a)   In this 

 section: 

               (1)     "Financial institution"   has the meaning assigned 

 by Section 201.101, Finance Code. 

               (2)  "Insurance entity" means: 

                     (A)     an entity described by Section 82.002(a), 

 Insurance Code; 

                     (B)     a fraternal benefit society regulated under 

 Chapter 885, Insurance Code; or 

                     (C)     the developer of an artificial intelligence 

 system used by an entity described by Paragraph (A) or (B). 

               (3)     "Protected class" means a group or class of 

 persons with a characteristic, quality, belief, or status protected 

 from discrimination by state or federal civil rights laws, and 

 includes race, color, national origin, sex, age, religion, or 

 disability. 

         (b)     A person may not develop or deploy an artificial 

 intelligence system with the intent to unlawfully discriminate 

 against a protected class in violation of state or federal law. 

         (c)     For purposes of this section, a disparate impact is not 

 sufficient by itself to demonstrate an intent to discriminate. 

         (d)     This section does not apply to an insurance entity for 

 purposes of providing insurance services if the entity is subject 

 to applicable statutes regulating unfair discrimination, unfair 

 methods of competition, or unfair or deceptive acts or practices 

 related to the business of insurance. 

         (e)     A federally insured financial institution is considered 

 to be in compliance with this section if the institution complies 

 with all federal and state banking laws and regulations. 

         Sec.   552.057.     CERTAIN SEXUALLY EXPLICIT CONTENT AND CHILD 

 PORNOGRAPHY. A person may not: 

               (1)     develop or distribute an artificial intelligence 

 system with the sole intent of producing, assisting or aiding in 

 producing, or distributing: 

                     (A)     visual material in violation of Section 

 43.26, Penal Code; or 

                     (B)     deep fake videos or images in violation of 

 Section 21.165, Penal Code; or 

               (2)     intentionally develop or distribute an artificial 

 intelligence system that engages in text-based conversations that 

 simulate or describe sexual conduct, as that term is defined by 

 Section 43.25, Penal Code, while impersonating or imitating a child 

 younger than 18 years of age. 

 SUBCHAPTER C.   ENFORCEMENT 

         Sec.   552.101.     ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY. (a)   The attorney 

 general has exclusive authority to enforce this chapter, except to 

 the extent provided by Section 552.106. 

         (b)     This chapter does not provide a basis for, and is not 

 subject to, a private right of action for a violation of this 

 chapter or any other law. 

         Sec.   552.102.     INFORMATION AND COMPLAINTS. The attorney 

 general shall create and maintain an online mechanism on the 

 attorney general's Internet website through which a consumer may 

 submit a complaint under this chapter to the attorney general. 

         Sec.   552.103.     INVESTIGATIVE AUTHORITY. (a)   If the 

 attorney general receives a complaint through the online mechanism 

 under Section 552.102 alleging a violation of this chapter, the 

 attorney general may issue a civil investigative demand to 

 determine if a violation has occurred.   The attorney general shall 

 issue demands in accordance with and under the procedures 

 established under Section 15.10. 

         (b)     The attorney general may request from the person 

 reported through the online mechanism, pursuant to a civil 

 investigative demand issued under Subsection (a): 

               (1)     a high-level description of the purpose, intended 

 use, deployment context, and associated benefits of the artificial 

 intelligence system with which the person is affiliated; 

               (2)     a description of the type of data used to program 

 or train the artificial intelligence system; 

               (3)     a high-level description of the categories of data 

 processed as inputs for the artificial intelligence system; 

               (4)     a high-level description of the outputs produced 

 by the artificial intelligence system; 

               (5)     any metrics the person uses to evaluate the 

 performance of the artificial intelligence system; 

               (6)     any known limitations of the artificial 

 intelligence system; 

               (7)     a high-level description of the post-deployment 

 monitoring and user safeguards the person uses for the artificial 

 intelligence system, including, if the person is a deployer, the 

 oversight, use, and learning process established by the person to 

 address issues arising from the system's deployment; or 

               (8)     any other relevant documentation reasonably 

 necessary for the attorney general to conduct an investigation 

 under this section. 

         Sec.   552.104.     NOTICE OF VIOLATION; OPPORTUNITY TO CURE.   

 (a)   If the attorney general determines that a person has violated 

 or is violating this chapter, the attorney general shall notify the 

 person in writing of the determination, identifying the specific 

 provisions of this chapter the attorney general alleges have been 

 or are being violated. 

         (b)     The attorney general may not bring an action against the 

 person: 

               (1)     before the 60th day after the date the attorney 

 general provides the notice under Subsection (a); or 

               (2)     if, before the 60th day after the date the attorney 

 general provides the notice under Subsection (a), the person: 

                     (A)  cures the identified violation; and 

                     (B)     provides the attorney general with a written 

 statement that the person has: 

                           (i)  cured the alleged violation; 

                           (ii)     provided supporting documentation to 

 show the manner in which the person cured the violation; and 

                           (iii)     made any necessary changes to 

 internal policies to reasonably prevent further violation of this 

 chapter. 

         Sec.   552.105.     CIVIL PENALTY; INJUNCTION.   (a)   A person who 

 violates this chapter and does not cure the violation under Section 

 552.104 is liable to this state for a civil penalty in an amount of: 

               (1)     for each violation the court determines to be 

 curable or a breach of a statement submitted to the attorney general 

 under Section 552.104(b)(2), not less than $10,000 and not more 

 than $12,000; 

               (2)     for each violation the court determines to be 

 uncurable, not less than $80,000 and not more than $200,000; and 

               (3)     for a continued violation, not less than $2,000 

 and not more than $40,000 for each day the violation continues. 

         (b)     The attorney general may bring an action in the name of 

 this state to: 

               (1)  collect a civil penalty under this section; 

               (2)     seek injunctive relief against further violation 

 of this chapter; and 

               (3)     recover attorney's fees and reasonable court costs 

 or other investigative expenses. 

         (c)     There is a rebuttable presumption that a person used 

 reasonable care as required under this chapter. 

         (d)     A defendant in an action under this section may seek an 

 expedited hearing or other process, including a request for 

 declaratory judgment, if the person believes in good faith that the 

 person has not violated this chapter. 

         (e)     A defendant in an action under this section may not be 

 found liable if: 

               (1)     another person uses the artificial intelligence 

 system affiliated with the defendant in a manner prohibited by this 

 chapter; or 

               (2)     the defendant discovers a violation of this 

 chapter through: 

                     (A)     feedback from a developer, deployer, or other 

 person who believes a violation has occurred; 

                     (B)     testing, including adversarial testing or 

 red-team testing; 

                     (C)     following guidelines set by applicable state 

 agencies; or 

                     (D)     if the defendant substantially complies with 

 the most recent version of the "Artificial Intelligence Risk 

 Management Framework: Generative Artificial Intelligence Profile" 

 published by the National Institute of Standards and Technology or 

 another nationally or internationally recognized risk management 

 framework for artificial intelligence systems, an internal review 

 process. 

         (f)     The attorney general may not bring an action to collect 

 a civil penalty under this section against a person for an 

 artificial intelligence system that has not been deployed. 

         Sec.   552.106.     ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS BY STATE AGENCIES. (a)   A 

 state agency may impose sanctions against a person licensed, 

 registered, or certified by that agency for a violation of 

 Subchapter B if: 

               (1)     the person has been found in violation of this 

 chapter under Section 552.105; and 

               (2)     the attorney general has recommended additional 

 enforcement by the applicable agency. 

         (b)  Sanctions under this section may include: 

               (1)     suspension, probation, or revocation of a license, 

 registration, certificate, or other authorization to engage in an 

 activity; and 

               (2)  a monetary penalty not to exceed $100,000. 

 CHAPTER 553. ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE REGULATORY SANDBOX PROGRAM 

 SUBCHAPTER A. GENERAL PROVISIONS 

         Sec. 553.001.  DEFINITIONS. In this chapter: 

               (1)     "Applicable agency" means a department of this 

 state established by law to regulate certain types of business 

 activity in this state and the people engaging in that business, 

 including the issuance of licenses and registrations, that the 

 department determines would regulate a program participant if the 

 person were not operating under this chapter. 

               (2)     "Department" means the Texas Department of 

 Information Resources. 

               (3)     "Program" means the regulatory sandbox program 

 established under this chapter that allows a person, without being 

 licensed or registered under the laws of this state, to test an 

 artificial intelligence system for a limited time and on a limited 

 basis. 

               (4)     "Program participant" means a person whose 

 application to participate in the program is approved and who may 

 test an artificial intelligence system under this chapter. 

 SUBCHAPTER B. SANDBOX PROGRAM FRAMEWORK 

         Sec.   553.051.     ESTABLISHMENT OF SANDBOX PROGRAM. (a) The 

 department, in consultation with the council, shall create a 

 regulatory sandbox program that enables a person to obtain legal 

 protection and limited access to the market in this state to test 

 innovative artificial intelligence systems without obtaining a 

 license, registration, or other regulatory authorization. 

         (b)  The program is designed to: 

               (1)     promote the safe and innovative use of artificial 

 intelligence systems across various sectors including healthcare, 

 finance, education, and public services; 

               (2)     encourage responsible deployment of artificial 

 intelligence systems while balancing the need for consumer 

 protection, privacy, and public safety; 

               (3)     provide clear guidelines for a person who develops 

 an artificial intelligence system to test systems while certain 

 laws and regulations related to the testing are waived or 

 suspended; and 

               (4)     allow a person to engage in research, training, 

 testing, or other pre-deployment activities to develop an 

 artificial intelligence system. 

         (c)     The attorney general may not file or pursue charges 

 against a program participant for violation of a law or regulation 

 waived under this chapter that occurs during the testing period. 

         (d)     A state agency may not file or pursue punitive action 

 against a program participant, including the imposition of a fine 

 or the suspension or revocation of a license, registration, or 

 other authorization, for violation of a law or regulation waived 

 under this chapter that occurs during the testing period. 

         (e)     Notwithstanding Subsections (c) and (d), the 

 requirements of Subchapter B, Chapter 552, may not be waived, and 

 the attorney general or a state agency may file or pursue charges or 

 action against a program participant who violates that subchapter. 

         Sec.   553.052.     APPLICATION FOR PROGRAM PARTICIPATION. (a) 

 A person must obtain approval from the department and any 

 applicable agency before testing an artificial intelligence system 

 under the program. 

         (b)     The department by rule shall prescribe the application 

 form. The form must require the applicant to: 

               (1)     provide a detailed description of the artificial 

 intelligence system the applicant desires to test in the program, 

 and its intended use; 

               (2)     include a benefit assessment that addresses 

 potential impacts on consumers, privacy, and public safety; 

               (3)     describe the applicant's plan for mitigating any 

 adverse consequences that may occur during the test; and 

               (4)     provide proof of compliance with any applicable 

 federal artificial intelligence laws and regulations. 

         Sec.   553.053.     DURATION AND SCOPE OF PARTICIPATION. (a) A 

 program participant approved by the department and each applicable 

 agency may test and deploy an artificial intelligence system under 

 the program for a period of not more than 36 months. 

         (b)     The department may extend a test under this chapter if 

 the department finds good cause for the test to continue. 

         Sec.   553.054.     EFFICIENT USE OF RESOURCES.   The department 

 shall coordinate the activities under this subchapter and any other 

 law relating to artificial intelligence systems to ensure efficient 

 system implementation and to streamline the use of department 

 resources, including information sharing and personnel. 

 SUBCHAPTER C. OVERSIGHT AND COMPLIANCE 

         Sec.   553.101.     COORDINATION WITH APPLICABLE AGENCY. (a) 

 The department shall coordinate with all applicable agencies to 

 oversee the operation of a program participant. 

         (b)     The council or an applicable agency may recommend to the 

 department that a program participant be removed from the program 

 if the council or applicable agency finds that the program 

 participant's artificial intelligence system: 

               (1)  poses an undue risk to public safety or welfare; 

               (2)  violates any federal law or regulation; or 

               (3)     violates any state law or regulation not waived 

 under the program. 

         Sec.   553.102.     PERIODIC REPORT BY PROGRAM PARTICIPANT. (a) 

 A program participant shall provide a quarterly report to the 

 department. 

         (b)  The report shall include: 

               (1)     metrics for the artificial intelligence system's 

 performance; 

               (2)     updates on how the artificial intelligence system 

 mitigates any risks associated with its operation; and 

               (3)     feedback from consumers and affected stakeholders 

 that are using an artificial intelligence system tested under this 

 chapter. 

         (c)     The department shall maintain confidentiality regarding 

 the intellectual property, trade secrets, and other sensitive 

 information it obtains through the program. 

         Sec.   553.103.     ANNUAL REPORT BY DEPARTMENT. (a) The 

 department shall submit an annual report to the legislature. 

         (b)  The report shall include: 

               (1)     the number of program participants testing an 

 artificial intelligence system in the program; 

               (2)     the overall performance and impact of artificial 

 intelligence systems tested in the program; and 

               (3)     recommendations on changes to laws or regulations 

 for future legislative consideration. 

 CHAPTER 554. TEXAS ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE COUNCIL 

 SUBCHAPTER A. CREATION AND ORGANIZATION OF COUNCIL 

         Sec.   554.001.     CREATION OF COUNCIL. (a) The Texas 

 Artificial Intelligence Council is created to: 

               (1)     ensure artificial intelligence systems in this 

 state are ethical and developed in the public's best interest; 

               (2)     ensure artificial intelligence systems in this 

 state do not harm public safety or undermine individual freedoms by 

 finding issues and making recommendations to the legislature 

 regarding the Penal Code and Chapter 82, Civil Practice and 

 Remedies Code; 

               (3)     identify existing laws and regulations that impede 

 innovation in the development of artificial intelligence systems 

 and recommend appropriate reforms; 

               (4)     analyze opportunities to improve the efficiency 

 and effectiveness of state government operations through the use of 

 artificial intelligence systems; 

               (5)     make recommendations to applicable state agencies 

 regarding the use of artificial intelligence systems to improve the 

 agencies'   efficiency and effectiveness; 

               (6)     evaluate potential instances of regulatory 

 capture, including undue influence by technology companies or 

 disproportionate burdens on smaller innovators caused by the use of 

 artificial intelligence systems; 

               (7)     evaluate the influence of technology companies on 

 other companies and determine the existence or use of tools or 

 processes designed to censor competitors or users through the use 

 of artificial intelligence systems; 

               (8)     offer guidance and recommendations to the 

 legislature on the ethical and legal use of artificial intelligence 

 systems; 

               (9)     conduct and publish the results of a study on the 

 current regulatory environment for artificial intelligence 

 systems; 

               (10)     receive reports from the Department of 

 Information Resources regarding the regulatory sandbox program 

 under Chapter 553; and 

               (11)     make recommendations for improvements to the 

 regulatory sandbox program under Chapter 553. 

         (b)     The council is administratively attached to the 

 Department of Information Resources, and the department shall 

 provide administrative support to the council as provided by this 

 section. 

         (c)     The Department of Information Resources and the council 

 shall enter into a memorandum of understanding detailing: 

               (1)     the administrative support the council requires 

 from the department to fulfill the council's purposes; 

               (2)     the reimbursement of administrative expenses to 

 the department; and 

               (3)     any other provisions necessary to ensure the 

 efficient operation of the council. 

         Sec.   554.002.     COUNCIL MEMBERSHIP. (a) The council is 

 composed of seven members as follows: 

               (1)     three members of the public appointed by the 

 governor; 

               (2)     two members of the public appointed by the 

 lieutenant governor; and 

               (3)     two members of the public appointed by the speaker 

 of the house of representatives. 

         (b)     Members of the council serve staggered four-year terms, 

 with the terms of three or four members expiring every two years. 

         (c)     The governor shall appoint a chair from among the 

 members, and the council shall elect a vice chair from its 

 membership. 

         (d)     The council may establish an advisory board composed of 

 individuals from the public who possess expertise directly related 

 to the council's functions, including technical, ethical, 

 regulatory, and other relevant areas. 

         Sec.   554.003.     QUALIFICATIONS. Members of the council must 

 be Texas residents and have knowledge or expertise in one or more of 

 the following areas: 

               (1)  artificial intelligence systems; 

               (2)  data privacy and security; 

               (3)  ethics in technology or law; 

               (4)  public policy and regulation; 

               (5)     risk management related to artificial 

 intelligence systems; 

               (6)     improving the efficiency and effectiveness of 

 governmental operations; or 

               (7)  anticompetitive practices and market fairness. 

         Sec.   554.004.     STAFF AND ADMINISTRATION. The council may 

 hire an executive director and other personnel as necessary to 

 perform its duties. 

 SUBCHAPTER B. POWERS AND DUTIES OF COUNCIL 

         Sec.   554.101.     ISSUANCE OF REPORTS. (a) The council may 

 issue reports to the legislature regarding the use of artificial 

 intelligence systems in this state. 

         (b)  The council may issue reports on: 

               (1)     the compliance of artificial intelligence systems 

 in this state with the laws of this state; 

               (2)     the ethical implications of deploying artificial 

 intelligence systems in this state; 

               (3)     data privacy and security concerns related to 

 artificial intelligence systems in this state; or 

               (4)     potential liability or legal risks associated with 

 the use of artificial intelligence systems in this state. 

         Sec.   554.102.     TRAINING AND EDUCATIONAL OUTREACH. The 

 council shall conduct training programs for state agencies and 

 local governments on the use of artificial intelligence systems. 

         Sec.   554.103.     LIMITATION OF AUTHORITY. The council may 

 not: 

               (1)     adopt rules or promulgate guidance that is binding 

 for any entity; 

               (2)     interfere with or override the operation of a 

 state agency; or 

               (3)     perform a duty or exercise a power not granted by 

 this chapter. 

        SECTION 5.  Section 325.011, Government Code, is amended to 

 read as follows: 

        Sec. 325.011.  CRITERIA FOR REVIEW. The commission and its 

 staff shall consider the following criteria in determining whether 

 a public need exists for the continuation of a state agency or its 

 advisory committees or for the performance of the functions of the 

 agency or its advisory committees: 

              (1)  the efficiency and effectiveness with which the 

 agency or the advisory committee operates; 

              (2)(A)  an identification of the mission, goals, and 

 objectives intended for the agency or advisory committee and of the 

 problem or need that the agency or advisory committee was intended 

 to address; and 

                    (B)  the extent to which the mission, goals, and 

 objectives have been achieved and the problem or need has been 

 addressed; 

              (3)(A)  an identification of any activities of the 

 agency in addition to those granted by statute and of the authority 

 for those activities; and 

                    (B)  the extent to which those activities are 

 needed; 

              (4)  an assessment of authority of the agency relating 

 to fees, inspections, enforcement, and penalties; 

              (5)  whether less restrictive or alternative methods of 

 performing any function that the agency performs could adequately 

 protect or provide service to the public; 

              (6)  the extent to which the jurisdiction of the agency 

 and the programs administered by the agency overlap or duplicate 

 those of other agencies, the extent to which the agency coordinates 

 with those agencies, and the extent to which the programs 

 administered by the agency can be consolidated with the programs of 

 other state agencies; 

              (7)  the promptness and effectiveness with which the 

 agency addresses complaints concerning entities or other persons 

 affected by the agency, including an assessment of the agency's 

 administrative hearings process; 

              (8)  an assessment of the agency's rulemaking process 

 and the extent to which the agency has encouraged participation by 

 the public in making its rules and decisions and the extent to which 

 the public participation has resulted in rules that benefit the 

 public; 

              (9)  the extent to which the agency has complied with: 

                    (A)  federal and state laws and applicable rules 

 regarding equality of employment opportunity and the rights and 

 privacy of individuals; and 

                    (B)  state law and applicable rules of any state 

 agency regarding purchasing guidelines and programs for 

 historically underutilized businesses; 

              (10)  the extent to which the agency issues and 

 enforces rules relating to potential conflicts of interest of its 

 employees; 

              (11)  the extent to which the agency complies with 

 Chapters 551 and 552 and follows records management practices that 

 enable the agency to respond efficiently to requests for public 

 information; 

              (12)  the effect of federal intervention or loss of 

 federal funds if the agency is abolished; 

              (13)  the extent to which the purpose and effectiveness 

 of reporting requirements imposed on the agency justifies the 

 continuation of the requirement; [ and ] 

              (14)  an assessment of the agency's cybersecurity 

 practices using confidential information available from the 

 Department of Information Resources or any other appropriate state 

 agency ; and 

               (15)     an assessment of the agency's use of artificial 

 intelligence systems, as that term is defined by Section 551.001, 

 Business & Commerce Code, in its operations and its oversight of the 

 use of artificial intelligence systems by persons under the 

 agency's jurisdiction, and any related impact on the agency's 

 ability to achieve its mission, goals, and objectives, made using 

 information available from the Department of Information 

 Resources, the attorney general, or any other appropriate state 

 agency . 

        SECTION 6.  Section 2054.068(b), Government Code, is amended 

 to read as follows: 

        (b)  The department shall collect from each state agency 

 information on the status and condition of the agency's information 

 technology infrastructure, including information regarding: 

              (1)  the agency's information security program; 

              (2)  an inventory of the agency's servers, mainframes, 

 cloud services, and other information technology equipment; 

              (3)  identification of vendors that operate and manage 

 the agency's information technology infrastructure; [ and ] 

              (4)  any additional related information requested by 

 the department ; and 

               (5)     an evaluation of the use or considered use of 

 artificial intelligence systems, as defined by Section 551.001, 

 Business & Commerce Code, by each state agency . 

        SECTION 7.  Section 2054.0965(b), Government Code, is 

 amended to read as follows: 

        (b)  Except as otherwise modified by rules adopted by the 

 department, the review must include: 

              (1)  an inventory of the agency's major information 

 systems, as defined by Section 2054.008, and other operational or 

 logistical components related to deployment of information 

 resources as prescribed by the department; 

              (2)  an inventory of the agency's major databases , 

 artificial intelligence systems, as defined by Section 551.001, 

 Business & Commerce Code, and applications; 

              (3)  a description of the agency's existing and planned 

 telecommunications network configuration; 

              (4)  an analysis of how information systems, 

 components, databases, applications, and other information 

 resources have been deployed by the agency in support of: 

                    (A)  applicable achievement goals established 

 under Section 2056.006 and the state strategic plan adopted under 

 Section 2056.009; 

                    (B)  the state strategic plan for information 

 resources; and 

                    (C)  the agency's business objectives, mission, 

 and goals; 

              (5)  agency information necessary to support the state 

 goals for interoperability and reuse; and 

              (6)  confirmation by the agency of compliance with 

 state statutes, rules, and standards relating to information 

 resources. 

        SECTION 8.  Not later than September 1, 2026, the attorney 

 general shall post on the attorney general's Internet website the 

 information and online mechanism required by Section 552.102, 

 Business & Commerce Code, as added by this Act. 

        SECTION 9.  (a)  Notwithstanding any other section of this 

 Act, in a state fiscal year, a state agency to which this Act 

 applies is not required to implement a provision found in another 

 section of this Act that is drafted as a mandatory provision 

 imposing a duty on the agency to take an action unless money is 

 specifically appropriated to the agency for that fiscal year to 

 carry out that duty.  The agency may implement the provision in that 

 fiscal year to the extent other funding is available to the agency 

 to do so. 

        (b)  If, as authorized by Subsection (a) of this section, the 

 state agency does not implement the mandatory provision in a state 

 fiscal year, the state agency, in its legislative budget request 

 for the next state fiscal biennium, shall certify that fact to the 

 Legislative Budget Board and include a written estimate of the 

 costs of implementing the provision in each year of that next state 

 fiscal biennium. 

        SECTION 10.  This Act takes effect January 1, 2026. 

 ______________________________ 
 ______________________________ 

    President of the Senate 
 Speaker of the House      

        I certify that H.B. No. 149 was passed by the House on April 

 23, 2025, by the following vote:  Yeas 146, Nays 3, 1 present, not 

 voting; and that the House concurred in Senate amendments to H.B. 

 No. 149 on May 30, 2025, by the following vote:  Yeas 121, Nays 17, 

 2 present, not voting. 

 ______________________________ 

 Chief Clerk of the House    

        I certify that H.B. No. 149 was passed by the Senate, with 

 amendments, on May 23, 2025, by the following vote:  Yeas 31, Nays 

 0. 

 ______________________________ 

 Secretary of the Senate    

 APPROVED: __________________ 

                 Date        

          __________________ 

               Governor        

 