Data (Use and Access) Act 2025 Skip to main content Skip to navigation legislation.gov.uk https://www.nationalarchives.gov.uk Cymraeg Home Explore our collections Research tools Help and guidance What's new About us Search Legislation Search Legislation Title: (or keywords in the title) Year: Number: Type: All UK Legislation (excluding originating from the EU) -------------------------------------------- All Legislation (including originating from EU) -------------------------------------------- All Legislation originating from the EU that is amended by the UK -------------------------------------------- All Primary Legislation UK Public General Acts UK Local Acts UK Private and Personal Acts Acts of the Scottish Parliament Acts of Senedd Cymru Acts of the National Assembly for Wales Measures of the National Assembly for Wales Church Measures Acts of the Northern Ireland Assembly Acts of the Old Scottish Parliament Acts of the English Parliament Acts of the Old Irish Parliament Acts of the Parliament of Great Britain Local Acts of the Parliament of Great Britain Private and Personal Acts of the Parliament of Great Britain Northern Ireland Orders in Council Measures of the Northern Ireland Assembly Acts of the Northern Ireland Parliament -------------------------------------------- All Secondary Legislation UK Statutory Instruments Welsh Statutory Instruments Scottish Statutory Instruments Northern Ireland Statutory Rules Church Instruments UK Ministerial Directions UK Ministerial Orders UK Statutory Rules and Orders Northern Ireland Statutory Rules and Orders -------------------------------------------- All Legislation originating from the EU Regulations originating from the EU Regulations originating from the EU that are amended by the UK Decisions originating from the EU Decisions originating from the EU that are amended by the UK Directives originating from the EU European Union Treaties -------------------------------------------- All Draft Legislation UK Draft Statutory Instruments Scottish Draft Statutory Instruments Northern Ireland Draft Statutory Rules -------------------------------------------- All Impact Assessments UK Impact Assessments Search Advanced Search Data (Use and Access) Act 2025 You are here: UK Public General Acts 2025 c. 18 Part 5 Chapter 1 Automated decision-making Section 80 Table of Contents Content Explanatory Notes More Resources Previous: Provision Next: Provision Plain View Print Options What Version Latest available (Revised) Original (As enacted) Advanced Features Show Explanatory Notes for Sections Opening Options Open whole Act Open Act without Schedules Open Schedules only More Resources Original: King's Printer Version View more Status: This is the original version (as it was originally enacted). 80 Automated decision-making This section has no associated Explanatory Notes (1) For Article 22 of the UK GDPR (automated individual decision-making, including profiling) substitute— “ Section 4A Automated individual decision-making Article 22A Automated processing and significant decisions 1. For the purposes of Articles 22B and 22C— (a) a decision is based solely on automated processing if there is no meaningful human involvement in the taking of the decision, and (b) a decision is a significant decision, in relation to a data subject, if— (i) it produces a legal effect for the data subject, or (ii) it has a similarly significant effect for the data subject. 2. When considering whether there is meaningful human involvement in the taking of a decision, a person must consider, among other things, the extent to which the decision is reached by means of profiling. Article 22B Restrictions on automated decision-making 1. A significant decision based entirely or partly on processing described in Article 9(1) (processing of special categories of personal data) may not be taken based solely on automated processing, unless one of the following conditions is met. 2. The first condition is that the decision is based entirely on processing of personal data to which the data subject has given explicit consent. 3. The second condition is that— (a) the decision is— (i) necessary for entering into, or performing, a contract between the data subject and a controller, or (ii) required or authorised by law, and (b) point (g) of Article 9(2) applies. 4. A significant decision may not be taken based solely on automated processing if the processing of personal data carried out by, or on behalf of, the decision-maker for the purposes of the decision is carried out entirely or partly in reliance on Article 6(1)(ea). Article 22C Safeguards for automated decision-making 1. Where a significant decision taken by or on behalf of a controller in relation to a data subject is— (a) based entirely or partly on personal data, and (b) based solely on automated processing, the controller must ensure that safeguards for the data subject’s rights, freedoms and legitimate interests are in place which comply with paragraph 2 and any regulations under Article 22D(3). 2. The safeguards must consist of or include measures which— (a) provide the data subject with information about decisions described in paragraph 1 taken in relation to the data subject; (b) enable the data subject to make representations about such decisions; (c) enable the data subject to obtain human intervention on the part of the controller in relation to such decisions; (d) enable the data subject to contest such decisions. Article 22D Further provision about automated decision-making 1. The Secretary of State may by regulations provide that, for the purposes of Article 22A(1)(a), there is, or is not, to be taken to be meaningful human involvement in the taking of a decision in cases described in the regulations. 2. The Secretary of State may by regulations provide that, for the purposes of Article 22A(1)(b)(ii), a description of decision is, or is not, to be taken to have a similarly significant effect for the data subject. 3. The Secretary of State may by regulations make the following types of provision about the safeguards required under Article 22C(1)— (a) provision requiring the safeguards to include measures in addition to those described in Article 22C(2), (b) provision imposing requirements which supplement what Article 22C(2) requires the safeguards to consist of or include (including, for example, provision about how and when things described in Article 22C(2) must be done or be capable of being done), and (c) provision about measures which are not to be taken to satisfy one or more of points (a) to (d) of Article 22C(2). 4. Regulations under paragraph 3 may not amend Article 22C. 5. Regulations under this Article are subject to the affirmative resolution procedure. ” (2) The 2018 Act is amended in accordance with subsections (3) to (5) . (3) For sections 49 and 50 (law enforcement processing: automated individual decision-making) substitute— “ 50A Automated processing and significant decisions (1) For the purposes of sections 50B and 50C — (a) a decision is based solely on automated processing if there is no meaningful human involvement in the taking of the decision, and (b) a decision is a significant decision, in relation to a data subject, if— (i) it produces an adverse legal effect for the data subject, or (ii) it has a similarly significant adverse effect for the data subject. (2) When considering whether there is meaningful human involvement in the taking of a decision, a person must consider, among other things, the extent to which the decision is reached by means of profiling. 50B Restrictions on automated decision-making based on sensitive processing (1) A significant decision based entirely or partly on sensitive processing may not be taken based solely on automated processing, unless one of the following conditions is met. (2) The first condition is that the decision is based entirely on processing of personal data to which the data subject has given explicit consent. (3) The second condition is that the decision is required or authorised by law. 50C Safeguards for automated decision-making (1) Subject to subsection (3) , where a significant decision taken by or on behalf of a controller in relation to a data subject is— (a) based entirely or partly on personal data, and (b) based solely on automated processing, the controller must ensure that safeguards for the data subject’s rights, freedoms and legitimate interests are in place which comply with subsection (2) and any regulations under section 50D (4) . (2) The safeguards must consist of or include measures which— (a) provide the data subject with information about decisions described in subsection (1) taken in relation to the data subject; (b) enable the data subject to make representations about such decisions; (c) enable the data subject to obtain human intervention on the part of the controller in relation to such decisions; (d) enable the data subject to contest such decisions. (3) Subsections (1) and (2) do not apply in relation to a significant decision if— (a) exemption from those provisions is required for a reason listed in subsection (4) , (b) the controller reconsiders the decision as soon as reasonably practicable, and (c) there is meaningful human involvement in the reconsideration of the decision. (4) Those reasons are— (a) to avoid obstructing an official or legal inquiry, investigation or procedure; (b) to avoid prejudicing the prevention, detection, investigation or prosecution of criminal offences or the execution of criminal penalties; (c) to protect public security; (d) to safeguard national security; (e) to protect the rights and freedoms of others. (5) When considering whether there is meaningful human involvement in the reconsideration of a decision, a person must consider, among other things, the extent to which the conclusion reached on reconsideration is reached by means of profiling. 50D Further provision about automated decision-making (1) The Secretary of State may by regulations provide that, for the purposes of sections 50A (1) (a) and 50C (3) (c) , there is, or is not, to be taken to be meaningful human involvement in the taking or reconsideration of a decision in cases described in the regulations. (2) The Secretary of State may by regulations provide that, for the purposes of section 50A (1) (b) (ii) , a description of decision is, or is not, to be taken to have a similarly significant adverse effect for the data subject. (3) Regulations under subsection (1) or (2) may amend section 50A . (4) The Secretary of State may by regulations make the following types of provision about the safeguards required under section 50C (1) — (a) provision requiring the safeguards to include measures in addition to those described in section 50C (2) , (b) provision imposing requirements which supplement what section 50C (2) requires the safeguards to consist of or include (including, for example, provision about how and when things described in section 50C (2) must be done or be capable of being done), and (c) provision about measures which are not to be taken to satisfy one or more of paragraphs (a) to (d) of section 50C (2) . (5) Regulations under this section are subject to the affirmative resolution procedure. ” (4) In section 96 (intelligence services processing: right not to be subject to automated decision-making)— (a) in subsection (1), for “solely on” substitute “on entirely” , (b) in subsection (3), after “section” insert “and section 97” , and (c) at the end insert— “ (4) For the purposes of this section and section 97, a decision is based on entirely automated processing if the decision-making process does not include an opportunity for a human being to accept, reject or influence the decision. ” (5) In section 97 (intelligence services processing: right to intervene in automated decision-making)— (a) in subsection (1)(a), for “solely on” substitute “on entirely” , (b) in subsection (4)(b), for “solely on” substitute “on entirely” , and (c) omit subsection (6). (6) Schedule 6 to this Act contains minor and consequential amendments. Previous: Provision Next: Provision Back to top Options/Help Print Options Official printed copies Order a copy of this legislation buy now Print The Whole Act PDF The Whole Act Web page The Whole Act Print The Whole Part PDF The Whole Part Web page The Whole Part Print The Whole Chapter PDF The Whole Chapter Web page The Whole Chapter Print The Whole Cross Heading PDF The Whole Cross Heading Web page The Whole Cross Heading Print This Section only PDF This Section only Web page This Section only You have chosen to open The Whole Act The Whole Act you have selected contains over 200 provisions and might take some time to download. You may also experience some issues with your browser, such as an alert box that a script is taking a long time to run. Would you like to continue? Continue to open You have chosen to open The Whole Act as a PDF The Whole Act you have selected contains over 200 provisions and might take some time to download. Would you like to continue? Continue to open You have chosen to open The Whole Act without Schedules The Whole Act without Schedules you have selected contains over 200 provisions and might take some time to download. You may also experience some issues with your browser, such as an alert box that a script is taking a long time to run. Would you like to continue? Continue to open You have chosen to open The Whole Act without Schedules as a PDF The Whole Act without Schedules you have selected contains over 200 provisions and might take some time to download. Would you like to continue? Continue to open You have chosen to open the Whole Act The Whole Act you have selected contains over 200 provisions and might take some time to download. You may also experience some issues with your browser, such as an alert box that a script is taking a long time to run. Would you like to continue? Continue to open You have chosen to open the Whole Act without Schedules The Whole Act without Schedules you have selected contains over 200 provisions and might take some time to download. You may also experience some issues with your browser, such as an alert box that a script is taking a long time to run. Would you like to continue? Continue to open You have chosen to open Schedules only The Schedules you have selected contains over 200 provisions and might take some time to download. You may also experience some issues with your browser, such as an alert box that a script is taking a long time to run. Would you like to continue? Continue to open Legislation is available in different versions: Latest Available (revised): The latest available updated version of the legislation incorporating changes made by subsequent legislation and applied by our editorial team. Changes we have not yet applied to the text, can be found in the ‘Changes to Legislation’ area. Original (As Enacted or Made): The original version of the legislation as it stood when it was enacted or made. No changes have been applied to the text. See additional information alongside the content Show Explanatory Notes for Sections: Displays relevant parts of the explanatory notes interweaved within the legislation content. Opening Options Different options to open legislation in order to view more content on screen at once Explanatory Notes Text created by the government department responsible for the subject matter of the Act to explain what the Act sets out to achieve and to make the Act accessible to readers who are not legally qualified. Explanatory Notes were introduced in 1999 and accompany all Public Acts except Appropriation, Consolidated Fund, Finance and Consolidation Acts. More Resources Access essential accompanying documents and information for this legislation item from this tab. Dependent on the legislation item being viewed this may include: the original print PDF of the as enacted version that was used for the print copy lists of changes made by and/or affecting this legislation item confers power and blanket amendment details all formats of all associated documents correction slips links to related legislation and further information resources More Resources Use this menu to access essential accompanying documents and information for this legislation item. Dependent on the legislation item being viewed this may include: the original print PDF of the as enacted version that was used for the print copy correction slips Click 'View More' or select 'More Resources' tab for additional information including: lists of changes made by and/or affecting this legislation item confers power and blanket amendment details all formats of all associated documents links to related legislation and further information resources The data on this page is available in the alternative data formats listed: HTML5 alternative version HTML snippet alternative version PDF alternative version XML alternative version Akoma Ntoso alternative version HTML RDFa alternative version RDF/XML alternative version New site design Help About us Site map Accessibility Contact us Privacy notice Cookies Fair use policy All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0 except where otherwise stated . This site additionally contains content derived from EUR-Lex, reused under the terms of the Commission Decision 2011/833/EU on the reuse of documents from the EU institutions. For more information see the EUR-Lex public statement on re-use . © Crown and database right